
 
The Allstate Corporation NYSE:ALL
FQ4 2019 Earnings Call Transcripts
Wednesday February 05 2020 2:30 PM GMT
S&P Global Market Intelligence Estimates
  -FQ4 2019- -FQ1 2020- -FY 2019- -FY 2020-
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS
EPS Normalized  3.21 3.13 (2.49 %) 2.82 10.50 10.43 (0.67 %) 10.31
Revenue  (mm) 9268.00 9194.00 (0.80 %) 9402.00 36150.00 36076.00 (0.20 %) 37995.33
Currency: USD
Consensus as of  Feb-05-2020 11:09 AM GMT
    - EPS NORMALIZED  -  
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE
FQ1 2019 2.32 2.30 (0.86 %)
FQ2 2019 1.55 2.18 40.65 %
FQ3 2019 2.57 2.84 10.51 %
FQ4 2019 3.21 3.13 (2.49 %)
1
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
Contents
Table of Contents
 
Call Participants .................................................................................. 3
Presentation .................................................................................. 4
Question and Answer .................................................................................. 9
2
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Call Participants
EXECUTIVES
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-
Liability & Director
Mario Rizzo
Executive VP & CFO
Mark Nogal;Head of Investor
Relations
Steven Emil Shebik
Vice Chairman
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Unknown Executive
Ryan James Tunis
ANALYSTS Autonomous Research LLP
Amit Kumar Yaron Joseph Kinar
The Buckingham Research Group Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Incorporated Research Division
Charles Gregory Peters
Raymond James & Associates
Inc. Research Division
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities
Research Division
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Research Division
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research
Division
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research
Division
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 3
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to The Allstate Fourth Quarter 2019
Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder today's program is being recorded. And
now I'd like to introduce your host for today's program Mr. Mark Nogal Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Mark Nogal;Head of Investor Relations
Thank you Jonathan. Good morning and welcome everyone to Allstate's Fourth Quarter 2019 Earnings
Conference Call. After prepared remarks we will have a question-and-answer session. Yesterday following
the close of the market we issued our news release and investor supplement and posted today's
presentation on our website at allstateinvestors.com.
Our management team is here to provide perspective on these results and further context on our recently
announced transformative growth plan. As noted on the first slide of the presentation our discussion
will contain non-GAAP measures for which there are reconciliations in the news release and investor
supplement and forward-looking statements about Allstate's operations.
Allstate's results may differ materially from these statements so please refer to our 10-K for 2018 and
other public documents for information on potential risks. And now I'll turn it over to Tom.
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Well good morning. Thank you for joining us to stay current on Allstate. Let's begin on Slide 2 with
Allstate's strategy. So as you know our strategy has 2 components: increased personal Property-Liability
market share; and expand into other protection businesses. Starting with the upper oval we've been a
leader in creating differentiated insurance products and features such as declining deductibles and new
car replacement. We use sophisticated pricing have strong claims expertise and are building an integrated
digital enterprise to lower costs. We're also diversifying our businesses by expanding our protection
offerings which are highlighted in the bottom oval.
We leverage the Allstate brand customer base and capabilities to drive growth in these businesses. So we
offer customers a circle of protection that includes Allstate Life workplace benefits commercial insurance
Roadside Services car warranties Protection Plans and Identity Protection.
These growth platforms have extremely broad distribution and includes major retailers insurance brokers
at the work site auto dealers manufacturers telcos and directly to consumers. On the right hand you
can see that this strategy creates shareholder value through customer satisfaction unit growth and
attractive returns on capital. It also ensures we have sustainable profitability and a diversified business
platform.
We move to Slide 3. Allstate's strategy continued to deliver excellent results in 2019. Revenues were
nearly $11.5 billion in the fourth quarter and $44.7 billion for the full year 2019. Net income was $1.7
billion in the fourth quarter and $4.7 billion in the full year. Adjusted net income was $1.02 billion or $3.13
per diluted share in the fourth quarter.
For the full year adjusted net income rose 11.1% compared to the prior year to $3.48 billion or $10.43
per share. That reflects excellent underlying profitability and lower catastrophe losses. Returns were also
excellent with an adjusted return on equity of 16.9%.
If you turn to Slide 4 Allstate delivered in all 5 2019 operating priorities which focused on both near-
term performance and long-term value creation. The first 3 priorities better serve customers grow our
customer base and achieve target returns on capital they're all intertwined in it just to ensure profitable
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 4
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
long-term growth. Customers were better served as the enterprise net promotions were improved at most
of our businesses.
Total policies in force reached $145.9 million which is an increase of 20.7% (sic) [ 27.7% ] compared
to the prior year. Property-Liability policies which are bigger dollar amounts increased by $428000 for
the prior year to $33.7 million as Allstate Esurance brands grew 1.3% and 2.3% respectively. Allstate
protection plans which of course was formerly SquareTrade continued its rapid growth due to the
addition of a major retail partner with items in force reaching $99.6 million.
Returns remained excellent driven primarily by strong Property-Liability results. The underlying combined
ratio of 85.0 finished 2019 at the favorable end of our revised full year guidance of 84 to 86 -- 84.5 to
86.5.
And you'll remember as part of our second quarter earnings release last year we had improved this
annual outlook range due to excellent operating results.
Now as you know Allstate is no longer going to provide underlying combined ratio guidance since return
on equity is a better measure of performance and Mario is going to provide some additional context on
this measure.
The $88 billion investment portfolio generated $3.2 billion of net investment income in 2019 which
reflects higher market-based portfolio yields which was offset by lower performance-based results.
Performance-based results were below expectations for the quarter but longer-term results have been
strong.
Total portfolio return was 9.2% in 2019. Shareholder value has also been created by building long-term
growth platforms. We announced new features of a transformative growth plan which we'll discuss next.
Arity continued to expand capabilities. Allstate Identity Protection is growing and launched its new digital
footprint offerings and Avail a car-sharing platform initiated operations.
We move to Slide 5. Let's discuss the transformative growth plan to increase Property-Liability market
share. The plan builds on our strengths and reflects current competitive conditions. Allstate has a
significant number of competitive strengths as you know particularly in Property-Liability we have
the Allstate brand we have pricing sophistication and claim expertise product breadth and a broad
distribution platform that goes from Allstate agents to Esurance's drug capabilities to Encompass's
independent agents.
As a result we're growing but GEICO and Progressive are growing auto insurance market share faster
through massive advertising spending and low-cost structures.
Our plan also recognizes that customer needs are changing due to increased connectivity and advanced
analytics. Our leading positions in -- at telematics and digital auto collision estimates are 2 examples of
how we're embracing these changes.
At the same time a majority of customers prefer an Allstate -- an insurance agent we hope an Allstate
insurance agent when purchasing a policy but are comfortable with self-service. So we're increasing
mobile application capabilities and building low cost centralized integrated service capabilities. We're now
accelerating these efforts with the transformative growth plan which has 3 components: expand customer
access; improving the customer value proposition by lowering expenses and redesigning Property-Liability
products; and investing in technology and marketing.
Expanded customer access will be provided by utilizing Esurance's direct capabilities to sell Allstate-
branded products. Esurance has strong direct capabilities having more than doubled in size since it was
acquired a little over 8 years ago.
As a result we can further leverage these capabilities by selling Allstate-branded policies directly to
consumers. This will require us to reposition the Allstate brand and the advertising previously deployed for
the Esurance brand will be shifted to the Allstate brand and then the Esurance brand will be phased out in
late 2020.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Expense reductions will improve affordability while funding investments in technology and marketing.
We will also strengthen the independent agent platform by merging the Allstate independent agent
offering into Encompass. This is a comprehensive plan that will make us a stronger competitor and lead
to increased market share. Now let me turn it over to Mario to go through the Property-Liability and
investment results.
Mario Rizzo
Executive VP & CFO
Thanks Tom. Let's go to Slide 6 where we highlight strong results within our Property-Liability segment.
Policy and premium growth continued and all of the brands had strong underlying profitability.
Underwriting income of $1 billion in the fourth quarter was significantly higher than the prior year driven
by lower catastrophe losses and the continued improvement in the expense ratio despite increased
marketing investments and the write-off of the remaining Esurance acquisition intangible related to the
brand name.
Moving to the table. Net written premium increased 4.4% in the fourth quarter and 5.6% for the full year
driven by policy and average premium growth in Allstate Brand Auto and homeowners insurance and the
Esurance brand.
Total policies in force increased 1.3% to $33.7 million in 2019. Underwriting income of $1 billion in the
fourth quarter and $2.8 billion for the full year were substantially higher than their respective prior year
periods driven by continued progress on improving our cost structure average premium increases and
lower catastrophe losses.
The underlying combined ratio shown in the bottom left which excludes catastrophes prior year reserve
reestimates and the $51 million pretax impairment charge related to our decision to utilize the Allstate
brand for direct sales was 84.9 for the fourth quarter.
The 2019 result of 85.0 was at the favorable end of the full year guidance range of 84.5 to 86.5.
Focusing on the table on the bottom right of the page you can see our recorded combined ratio trend over
time by line of business as well as total Property-Liability. Auto insurance profitability remains strong with
a combined ratio of 92.8 excluding the Esurance impairment. Increased average earned premium and
lower property damage and bodily injury frequency offset higher severity in 2019.
Property damage severity continues to be impacted by higher cost to repair vehicles while increase
-- which increases the number of total losses. Bodily injury severity increased at a rate above medical
inflation indices. But we factored these severity trends into our pricing algorithms.
Homeowners insurance continues to generate excellent returns. Lower catastrophe losses were significant
in achieving a combined ratio of 88.4 for the year. In total Allstate has industry-leading combined ratios
for our Property-Liability businesses.
Let's go to Slide 7 which highlights investment performance for the year and the fourth quarter. Our
investment portfolio total return for 2019 was 9.2%. Net investment income contributed 3.7% to
total return with a stable contribution from interest income on fixed-income investments but a lower
contribution from our performance-based portfolio. Higher bond and equity valuation contributed 5.5% to
total return in 2019.
The chart at the bottom shows net investment income for the fourth quarter of $689 million $97 million
lower than the fourth quarter of 2018.
Market-based investment income shown in blue increased to $735 million and benefited from proactive
actions we've taken including a duration extension in our Property-Liability portfolio. Performance-based
income shown in gray was lower than recent trend and included lower valuations of $74 million pretax on
2 private equity limited partnerships.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Given the performance-based portfolio's impact on reported income let's turn to Slide 8 to review the
purpose makeup and results of these investments. Our performance-based strategy delivers attractive
long-term risk-adjusted returns and is well suited for long-dated liabilities and capital.
The strategy diversifies our portfolio through idiosyncratic equity returns that complement our market-
based strategy. The portfolio is broadly diversified by asset type including private equity and real estate
as well as geography sectors and partners.
We invest in funds co-invest and have direct investments as well. The $8.7 billion portfolio had a 1-
year return through September of 7.6% and 3- and 5-year returns of around 11%. While idiosyncratic
investments generate higher returns they do create income volatility as you can see on the right. The
portfolio generated $469 million of investment income in 2019 but all of that occurred in the first 3
quarters.
In 2018 the portfolio generated $716 million of investment income and $145 million in the fourth quarter.
We continuously monitor the portfolio and do not believe the lower valuations on 2 private equity
investments in the fourth quarter are indicative of the broader portfolio.
Slide 9 highlights results for Allstate Life Benefits and Annuities. Allstate Life shown on the left
generated adjusted net income of $76 million in the fourth quarter and $261 million for the year. The
fourth quarter improved by $7 million compared to the prior year quarter driven by higher net investment
income and lower operating costs. The full year income of $261 million was 11.5% below 2018 due to the
third quarter write-down of deferred acquisition costs in connection with the annual actuarial assumption
review which reflected lower interest rates.
Allstate Benefits adjusted net income of $16 million in the fourth quarter was $10 million below the
prior year quarter. This decline was primarily driven by the write-off of acquisition costs related to the
nonrenewal of a large underperforming account.
For the full year adjusted net income of $115 million was $9 million below the prior year. Allstate
Annuities shown on the bottom right had an adjusted net loss of $33 million in the fourth quarter driven
by lower performance-based income. Adjusted net income of $10 million for the full year 2019 was below
the prior year reflecting lower performance-based investment income in the first and fourth quarters.
Let's turn to Slide 10. The Service Businesses continued to grow the number of customers protected with
policies in force increasing 42% to $105.9 million. This is largely due to the increase in Allstate Protection
Plans.
Revenues grew 21.9% to $434 million in the fourth quarter reaching $1.6 billion for the full year 2019.
Adjusted net income was $3 million in the fourth quarter and $38 million for the full year. Adjusted net
income increased in 2019 compared to the prior year period as improved loss performance in Allstate
Protection Plans and Allstate Dealer Services were partially offset by continued growth and integration
investments at Allstate Identity Protection.
Slide 11 highlights the excellent cash returns provided to shareholders. In 2019 we returned $2.5 billion
to common shareholders through a combination of $1.8 billion in share repurchases and $653 million in
common stock dividends. We repurchased 16.4 million or 4.9% of common shares outstanding over the
last 12 months and increased our book value per share by more than $15 to $73.12.
The $3 billion share repurchase program announced in October 2018 was completed in late January 2020.
And yesterday the Board approved a new $3 billion share repurchase authorization to be completed by
the end of 2021. We also reduced the cost of capital in 2019 by redeeming multiple series of preferred
stock and issued 2 new series at lower rates which will reduce preferred dividends by $17 million
annually.
Let's move to Slide 12 and discuss our long-term return on equity goal. Starting this year we will no
longer provide annual Property-Liability underlying combined ratio guidance but instead discuss returns
on equity.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
As we've discussed over the past 2 quarters this is a better measure of our performance for multiple
reasons. It is a broader long-term measure of performance than the underlying combined ratio which
focuses on just one part of one of our businesses and excludes significant items such as investment
income catastrophes and other protection businesses income.
It factors in capital management and is more correlated with stock price and it fosters a better
comparison with our peers.
On a long-term basis our adjusted net income return on equity goal is 14% to 17%. This range also
aligns with executive compensation as discussed in our annual proxy statement.
Now we'll open up the line for questions.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Question and Answer
Operator
[Operator Instructions]. Our first question comes from the line of Elyse Greenspan from Wells Fargo.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
Yes I'm sorry. Can you guys hear me?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Yes.
Mario Rizzo
Executive VP & CFO
We can yes.
Operator
Yes.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
So my first question is on your ROE target the 14% to 17%. Just a couple of questions there. If we
can get a sense of what you define as the long term? And then how you see kind of 2020 coming in in
reference to that 14% to 17%? And then my last question on that front would be are you going to go in
any particular details on the returns that you're targeting within that -- within Property-Liability versus
your Life-related businesses or services?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Elyse thanks for the question. First -- let me deal with the second question first. We're not going to give
out a number for 2020 which goes to your first question which is we kind of look at this kind of like a
rolling 3-year basis is like over a 3- year period caps go up and down things go up and down and we
should be able to earn a 14% to 17% return. We got there by really looking at a couple of things. First is
what's a level of economic rent we can capture by how good we are in the market we operate in. And so
as you know in the Property-Liability business we run a substantially more favorable combined ratio than
the industry and that's worth a substantial amount of economic return. We also look at it from what's the
appropriate risks -- what's the appropriate return for the risks that our shareholders take. And we feel like
14% to 17% is a good goal for us to have over that 3-year basis.
We don't -- I don't think you should try to use this to decide what 2020 forecasts are. There's a lot of
better ways to do a forecast. We're not going to break it out by component because our goal here was to
get up to the corporate level and say what are we doing in total because with the underlying combined
ratio we basically zoomed ourselves in including you all into how well was auto insurance doing that
we've neglected to focus on the other opportunities to do.
Obviously the 14% to 17% includes a whole bunch of components. So the Annuities as we've talked
about before are a large drag on that. So if you were to intuit between the 300-plus percent drag that
has on ROE to the other businesses you would say the other businesses are higher return. And of course
most of that is Property-Liability. But that will change over time obviously. The acquisitions like the
purchase of Allstate Protection Plans obviously we -- that business is doing extremely well from our
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
standpoint is well above its acquisition targets but it does put a drag on ROE. Interest rates would go the
other way particularly in the Property-Liability portfolio.
So what we did was stand back and say what do we think is right over time on kind of a rolling 3-year
basis.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
Okay that's helpful. And then my second question you guys rolled out your new growth-related
optimization efforts in December. Just want to get a sense as you kind of change your commission
structure a little bit how you envision that playing out in terms of both a pickup in new business growth?
And any kind of drag you see that having on the underlying loss ratio I guess specifically to your auto
book?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Well let me maybe go up for a minute and ask Glenn to talk about the commission changes you're talking
about for 2020 which I think the specific one you're referring. So transformative growth is a multiyear
effort. We expect -- it has both expanding customer access improving customer value and investing in
technology and marketing to help us grow market share. The improving value will be done 2 ways: one
reducing expenses and that's expenses across the board and we can talk more about that later if you
want but that's really across the board; and redesign the Property-Liability products.
Glenn did make some changes to the commission structure for 2020 which he can talk about.
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
Yes. Thanks. Elyse we've got a few things going to stimulate growth in what is a very competitive
environment right now. So we're pleased that we're able to keep growing. And to the second part of
your question deliver returns. So I'll answer that part first. Do we expect it to as we grow to deteriorate
returns. I would say no because we've evidenced that we're pretty disciplined about that. And we've been
-- as we've grown we've kept our eye on the returns. But the specific actions: one are -- you referred to
the change in compensation. We moved some of the compensation variable comp from agents renewals
to new business to incentivize growth. We want to pay folks for growing their business. We're also putting
more into advertising and managing our lead management platform.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Greg Peters from Raymond James.
Charles Gregory Peters
Raymond James & Associates Inc. Research Division
My first question will be around the expense ratio improvement that you guys generated in 2019. I think
that's probably the biggest surprise at least from an outside observer perspective. In some of your
previous comments you said there was some benefit for incentive comp. So I guess my question is
around how much of that 90 basis points was sustainable considering the strong results that you posted
last year? Is that going to boost up the incentive comp for 2020? And then dovetail the expense ratio
improvement with what's -- what kind of anticipation or expectation should we have about continuing
improvements? So should we factor in some modest improvement every year? I know you guys are rolling
out the integrated services platform et cetera?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Greg let me take incentive comp Mario can talk about expenses. So we set incentive comp targets every
year. So -- and so we have 2 measures: one is -- or 2 programs: one is the annual incentive plan which
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
is management's compensation program. And that's set every year based on how well we did the year
before. So it's not like you get a couple of years. We also have obviously a longer-term plan which is our
performance stock awards which are tied to return on equity.
So those -- you shouldn't expect fall over from 1 year to another as it relates to expenses. If we exceed
the targets established by the Board then obviously we have to put that into the P&L. But presumably
that's because we're making more money than everybody thought.
Mario Rizzo
Executive VP & CFO
Yes Greg thanks for the question. It's Mario. I just would add a couple of things. So first I think we're --
continue to be pleased with the progress we're making on expenses. And as Tom talked about earlier it's
a core part of our transformative growth strategy and one of the ways that we're going to further improve
the customer value proposition and create the capacity for the growth investments that he alluded to. So
our work in this area is not done. We're going to keep focusing on expenses and look to drive down the
expense ratio. One thing I'll add with the fourth quarter specifically the impairment charge related to the
Esurance brand was worth about 0.6 point on the expense ratio. So if you look year-over-year you see
some real meaningful improvement in the expense ratio in the quarter. That gets a little bit masked by
that nonrecurring charge.
Charles Gregory Peters
Raymond James & Associates Inc. Research Division
Is that -- Mario is that where the Esurance expense ratio is? I think was up 27.5% in the fourth quarter.
Is that what you're talking about?
Mario Rizzo
Executive VP & CFO
Yes it's in the expense ratio. It's worth about 0.6 for the overall Property-Liability number obviously more
of an impact to Esurance specifically.
Charles Gregory Peters
Raymond James & Associates Inc. Research Division
Got it. Great. The second question I guess let's pivot to the performance-based investments. Obviously
it's generated a strong result for you over a long period of time but there's volatility. And this past year
there was volatility. And for outside observers can you provide any guidance for us on how we should
think about that volatility as we think about 2020 -- the 2020 outlook?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
So -- Greg. Thanks. Let me make an overall comment about investments and John can go through
the -- more color on performance-based recognizing we don't like to give next year's projections out
there. We proactively manage our portfolio. John's created and uses a really comprehensive capital
allocation framework that helps the investment team decide what and when to invest. And it keeps track
of the decisions we made not just the investments we made but -- so we can track those. But also any
opportunities missed or any losses we avoided. So we watch our money well and that's on all parts of
the portfolio. So John can talk about what we do how we deploy that in performance-based and what it
means.
Unknown Executive
Yes. Thanks for the question Greg. When you go up and think about the whole portfolio it helps put
performance-based in context and why we like it. The portfolio is about $88 billion in size. It's -- majority
of it's invested in high quality fixed income instruments and then about 18% of that is equity and
roughly half of that is performance-based. So just to kind of size it within the overall context. We like
performance-based because it focuses on private markets and really expands our opportunity set of
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
investments that we can play with. It allows us to create in our belief a more efficient frontier a more
efficient portfolio that's well suited to our overall liability and capital structure. What comes with that is
increased volatility on income. And we believe that -- and we will -- we expect volatility. We'll expect it
in the past and we'll expect it going forward. We believe that we're compensated for that volatility of
income.
In this particular quarter that volatility especially if you look at it year-over-year on a quarterly basis
the difference was $97 million. About $74 million of that was tied to 2 investments. That obviously
was a disappointment but we've gone back in and we recognize that when you look at the underlying
investments here they range from timber and agriculture to real estate to private equity to a number of
different investments in there. It's hard to pin down with great precision in any given quarter how that's
going to play out. So I would expect continued volatility. But we have also gone through in as part of our
regular risk and surveillance processes looked at all of our holdings as we normally would do and believe
that this was not a -- this was a bit of a one-off type of quarter.
We remain confident in the effort going forward. Despite this -- the performance in this quarter we believe
we have a strong team. I -- when we look at measuring this we really look to longer-term measures. We
look to 3 5 and 10 year and some of those measures are in the investor supplement. And those tend to
be holding true. So we really aren't changing our overall commitment to it. And expect while there may
be bumps in the road in any given quarter that long run it's an important part of what we do.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Newsome from Piper Sandler.
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
I was hoping you could just give us a little bit of an update as how you see the current pricing and
competitive trend in auto. Obviously last year was a pretty competitive year. But if you think that things
are stabilizing industry-wide or not? Love to hear your thoughts.
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Paul this is Tom. Let me make a couple of overall thematic conversations and then Glenn can talk about
what he's seeing in the market by a competitor. But our philosophy has been to -- for -- as you know
profitable growth and long-term profitable growth. So we raise prices when we think we need to or when
the trends show we should do it. And so we don't get behind on it. We're not big in terms of reducing price
to try to grow like we -- I like to say around here anybody can lose their way to increase market share
and that's not our plan. The other thing I would say is you always have to be careful of the percentages
because it always depends where you start. So we have some competitors who are higher price than us.
And they're reducing their prices. And other carriers who are lower than us on certain risks and they're
raising the prices. So Glenn can talk about the percentages and there are obviously some overall macro
trends at work in auto insurance pricing. But I just -- we have to be careful not to be too specific as to
what it means for next quarter sales.
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
Yes. Thanks. And as Tom said I think it -- I'll lead you to one set of numbers that I think tells the story.
Our average premium in auto was up 3% year-over-year and our average loss and expense was up 2.5%.
So we were disciplined in managing to a positive return and actually made a little progress during a time
where as you said it was very very competitive out there. We did see some competitors take sort of
broad-based rate reductions which is why the overall CPI is negative that as Tom said not a trend we'll
follow or something we subscribe to. We look state-by-state. To your question about what we're seeing
more recently is it stabilizing I would say I'll give you a qualified yes. There is a little bit more rate
activity starting to flow into the market. You're seeing less price reductions or really no price reductions in
the recent past. And you see some increases out there. So I'd call it more stable.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
Fantastic. Second question obviously on the commercial line side of the world there's a lot of
conversation about basically casualty-related inflation trends. I recognize that that's not a huge part of
what you do as an auto and home insurer. But can you talk to whether or not you're seeing any of that in
the fairly modest pieces that are casualty parts of your business?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Paul are you talking about bodily injury costs? Is that where you're zooming in?
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
Well actually I'm thinking more of pure liability in the home insurance business for example. Slips and
falls and lawsuits and things of that nature.
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
Yes. So not seeing much of a trend on the home side on that. Our trends that are more meaningful for us
on the home side really are the mix between frequency and severity of our property -- first-party losses.
So we're not seeing really anything on home.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Goldman Sachs.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
First question is around net premiums written growth. I think it's slowed down a little bit. And I guess in
particular you see a little bit of a slowdown in renewal ratios and then new applications especially in auto.
Can you maybe talk about that and maybe how that ties to the transformative growth plan?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Sure. We can. First as I said earlier it's all about profitable growth for us. The transformative growth plan
should bring our expense ratio down and enable us to improve our competitive position which should
drive to higher growth. In 2019 throughout the year there was different stories in the Allstate-branded
business than the Esurance business. So Glenn maybe you can talk about the Allstate-branded business
and Esurance for 2019 was still under Steve. It's now of course under Glenn as part of our transformative
growth. But Steve maybe you can pop in on Esurance.
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
So yes I'll start us off. And just at a high level I'll tell you we feel good about the fact that we're able to
grow in a really competitive market. It's been pointed out before on the call here negative CPI premium's
up 5.5% policies in force grew across all major lines. And it's hard work to do that in a competitive
environment. So it's challenging. To your point that moved down a little bit in the fourth quarter but
we're still in the upper bounds in that sort of call it the upper 1/3 of our long-term trend on both
retention and new business. We're coming off of a high base year. And we're taking the actions short term
as we build out transformative growth taking the actions short term to grow which I referenced before of
changing agency comp where we're shifting more towards new business putting more into marketing.
Steven Emil Shebik
Vice Chairman
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
So for 2019 Esurance had about 8.5% increase in net written premium. So for the year it feels good
but that trend declined throughout the year. In the fourth quarter it was only about 2.6%. And what we
did as you know we grew fairly rapidly last year also. And so we had that new business penalty. And
in some states we took some fairly significant rates more in the second half of the year. So that really
slowed down our growth and -- as we go into the third and fourth quarter. Overall we felt good about the
growth we had. We feel good where the business is positioned going forward. But we have to [ use growth
profitably ].
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
Okay. That's helpful. And then my second question just goes back to the ROE guidance range for the
next 3 years. It's -- I guess what would be the largest components that would drive ROE to the upper
end of that range or the lower end of that range? And does that range also contemplate the possibility of
disposition of the Annuities business?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Yaron obviously there's a number of components here. There's -- what's your -- the obvious piece is
what's your combined ratio and underwriting income. That's impacted by what your underlying is also
what catastrophes are which as you know bounce around.
There's what happens to investment income and we've talked about that at length today. There's also
the amount of equity you have at play. And so as we're -- we've been building equity but we're still
buying shares back. So that has an impact. As it relates to the future this is kind of an as-is business
model approach. We didn't assume anything was going to change. And as I mentioned to Elyse is that
things will change in the future right? But we still feel like 14% to 17% is the right range. But lots of stuff
could change right? The interest rates could go up. And if interest rates go up for the Property-Liability
business most of that income falls right through to the bottom line. And if you look at our investment
income over a long period of time we are down substantially. Now we've made that up by reducing
the combined ratio and improving underwriting income but that will change over time. Obviously the
Annuities business would be a positive. To the extent we decided to invest in growth in an acquisition that
would be a negative.
So we felt like in total the 14% to 17% was a good goal for our -- goal for us. But if it changes as the
world changes then we'll let people know. But it's a 3-year kind of rolling average for us.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of David Motemaden from Evercore ISI.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Just a follow-up on the transformative growth plan. And just trying to get some sense for when you think
we should start to see the benefits of those changes start to roll through in terms of more competitive
product and then an uptick in new applications better retention and higher PIF growth after we've seen a
bit of a deceleration in all of those metrics?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Yes. David first it's a long-term plan. This is going to take us multiple years to do. But there's obviously
components of it and some parts will have a bigger impact early and other parts will have a larger impact
later in the game. So we expect early in the plan that expense reductions will play a significant role
in us improving our affordability for customers and getting to that second part of improving the value
proposition. As you go forward we would expect that redesigning our Property-Liability products will drive
more differentiation. So we were first to market with declining deductibles first to market with new car
replacement. There are other ideas and things we have in place that we think can drive more value. But
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
it's going to take more time to put those into the marketplace. So those -- so in terms of improving the
customer value proposition expenses first redesign products later. The reason redesign products is later
is in part it requires a new technology platform which is the third piece. We have to invest more in a
new technology platform particularly our product management platform and our customer experience
layer.
So that will take us a while to do. We think we can still cut expenses and reduce the overall expense
load while we are investing in those and that's our goal. But at the same time we're going to invest
more in marketing earlier in the process because we believe that will drive growth. I think Glenn talked
about what he is doing to enhance the Allstate agent value proposition whether that's increasing new
business commissions or freeing them up by taking low value work out of their offices and putting it into
integrated service. The other piece is to expand the access and that's happening as we speak. So the
access to people who called for the Allstate brand or got on to our website and the Allstate brand had
some restricted rules on it which we started to open those up now. So for example if you called during
working hours you could get a different experience than if you called after working hours -- like you
should have the same experience. Like you're getting online it shouldn't matter what time of day you do
that. So we're changing those rules.
Now what Glenn is also doing is taking the Esurance capabilities which are exceptionally good in direct.
He's putting those together with the Allstate-branded capabilities which do some direct today. And that
will then be utilized for the Allstate brand. That will take us some time to do. One obviously he's got to
put all the operations together and call centers and get the technology to work the same and get to order
-- the flow on the website all to be the same.
We also need to reposition the Allstate brand. And so the Allstate brand of course is extremely well-
known great unaided awareness high trust marks. People -- it's one of the great brands of the world. And
that said it's not viewed as modern as Esurance is. So Esurance is built for the modern world a little hip
a little cleaner. So we are working hard on repositioning the Allstate brand so that it brings both of those
together so that we both serve our customers with agents when they want them and we serve them
direct when they want. So it's a long-term plan but you can see there's -- it's front-end loaded on some
parts and back-end loaded on others.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Got it. And just with the customer value proposition and some of the increases in the bodily injury severity
that popped above CPI medical CPI this quarter which is the first time I think in a bit it has. Have you
-- I mean is that already embedded in your pricing? Or is that something that would I guess go the other
way against some of these expense saves that may be able to pass through a more competitive rate?
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
Yes. I'll take that. This is Glenn. And yes we've seen some of the trends come through that you've heard
about from others on bodily injury. It is embedded in our reserve position that we have. We're -- we think
through these things as we set our reserves as we set our pricing strategy. As you've seen over the last
couple of years where we've run hot on physical damage severity and yet it really hasn't flowed through
to the margins because we're pretty quick at adapting from a pricing standpoint and on a market-by-
market basis. So I would tell you we're watching it. We've got good process. We have a great claims
department that looks at both the technology and the process that they follow to handle claims. And
where it goes beyond what claims can manage when they're paying claims accurately we get it into
pricing quickly.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Okay great. And then if I could just sneak one last one in. Just in terms of the high-end of the ROE guide.
And I guess just thinking about potentially like there have been a few transactions in the fourth quarter
on the Life side and it seems like there's a pretty vibrant interest for -- a lot of interest in some of these
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
runoff books of Annuities or Life insurance. Just wondering -- in Illinois I believe there's a division of
company rule that can allow you to carve out specific reserves out of that Illinois legal entity and divest
to a potential acquirer. So just sort of wanted to get an update on your view in terms of your thinking
in terms of like whether you see any opportunities there to potentially reinsure or divest that book. And
maybe get to a more sustainable high-end of that ROE guide given it has like a 300 bp drag on the ROE.
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Well it is a third question. But this is different than the other ones. I will take it. But I also -- let's try to --
there are other people in the house.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Yes. I apologize.
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
The answer is we've been trying to -- we've been working on Annuities for a whole bunch of years trying
to get it better. We made a lot of progress to the extent there's something else we can do whether it's use
a division statute to get a different solution reinsure it. If we can do it in a way that is economic for our
shareholders and has a good risk-adjusted return we'll do that. And if we do that I don't think anybody
would be unhappy if we were -- if you looked at -- if we were above the upper end of the guidance.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Kumar from Buckingham Research.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
Two quick follow-up questions. The first I guess is in response to the previous question on the shift in
the plan -- the new plan. Can you give us any early sort of feedback from agents: number one on the
integrated services platform; and number two also what are the feedback on shifting the bonus and the
commission structure from existing and new businesses?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Let me -- Amit I think we got it. We were all leaning in towards the speaker to make sure we heard you
it was a little light. So I think Glenn can talk about integrated service and the commissions. Maybe let me
go back to transformative growth and make a comment really on behalf of the customer. So the agents
are part of our team we want them to be successful we're leaning in hard to make them successful. They
drive a bunch of our business and we're going to work hard at making them successful. That said there's
a range of opinions as to what people think about what you're doing.
But let me come back to the customer. What we are trying to do with transformative growth is stick with
our customer philosophies. And our -- one of our philosophies is you should pay a fair price for the risk
you create. We're very sophisticated in the way we do pricing. We have telematics which is the new end
of it with Drivewise. We also have a philosophy that customers should get what they pay for. As it relates
to the auto insurance so the same things apply. So if you get extra service then you should -- and extra
advice from a help of an agent that should be something you should be prepared to pay extra for. If you
want to do all stuff yourself and that's something that's a different price/value proposition.
So we are working hard to make sure that that agent value proposition is as effective and efficient as it
can be. Like people as we said I think we said when we talked about this that over half the people want
an agent and it's higher as it reflects our customer base. So we want to help them be as successful as
they can and that's why Glenn is working on a couple of programs he is.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
Yes I'll just add to it. We talk to our agency force all the time talking to agents every week. We've got
national advisory council regional Boards. We spend a lot of time with our agency force. And I'll give you
the range of reactions. So on the overall the big thing out of transformative growth the -- we're going
to pull the marketing in from Esurance at the Allstate brand as you might imagine wildly popular. Like
everybody feels really good about the fact that there's going to be more marketing in the pipeline and
we're focusing on the Allstate brand.
On the commission change. You've got folks that they were growing fast and they're built to grow. They
like it a lot because it leans right into their strength. You've got folks that really weren't growing or weren't
built to grow. You have a range of folks who either excited about making that transition and retooling their
business or ones that say I wasn't really ready to retool my business. And -- but they need to in order to
earn the commission that goes with the new business the higher new business commission. As it goes to
integrated service as Tom said lots of different opinions out there it really is about bringing people up for
growth. And what I can tell you is the folks that are in it are growing faster than the folks that aren't. So
we think we're creating something that's going to be really valuable for the agency force.
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
So the -- if you go back to the customer and what blends higher new business. When you ask customers
where does an agent add the most value. It's almost always on either the purchase of the product or
doing an insurance review. Helping me sort out stuff.
Very little of it is on changing address. And so that's what Glenn's working on.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
That's a fair comment. And very quickly on the loss cost trend. I know you briefly talked about it. But net-
net can you talk about -- when you look at the frequency and severity trends is the expectation that this
is how it sort of remains for the foreseeable future? Or what's your outlook on the loss cost trends here?
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
So I'll take that. This is Glenn. I'd like to -- let me go up a little bit because I think if you look at the whole
system and you say there's the premiums that come in and how we make changes to those over time it's
the expenses that are going out the door and then you split your loss cost by frequency and severity.
Over the past year 3 out of those 4 have been going well for us.
We -- our premium as you mentioned auto is up 3% average premium. Home is up 5% average
premium. The respective loss and expense on those lines are 2.5 and 4.
So we've made up 0.5 point and 1 point in terms of actually improving over the time period. So it's hard
for me to say I can't predict that severity will be flattening or up more over a year or 2 years from now.
But what I can tell you is we've been really disciplined about managing it quickly into each market on a
market-by-market basis. Our pricing sophistication our state management team has gotten better and
better. And we're able to react in real-time to those changes and manage to the types of returns that
we've been able to deliver. So while I can't give you a perfect prediction on where the severity will go I
feel really good about our ability to react to it in real-time.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Tunis from Autonomous Research.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
A couple for Glenn. So Tom mentioned that over half of Allstate brand customers [one ] in Asia. I thought
that was interesting. In terms of just like the pathway of becoming an Allstate brand customer what
percentage of people I guess start on the internet Google insurance or something like that? And is that
the lead generation mechanism I guess just digital or the Internet versus an Allstate agent as a little
league coach or something like that?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Ryan Glenn can get you through some of the percentages we give out. But this is an or conversation. A
lot of times people like well they want to buy direct or through an agent. It's an and like we'll sell to
people any way they want. Like if you want to start online buy it from the agent if you want to call an
agent buy online like we're just there to -- like we want to sell as much as we can to as many people we
can through as many ways as we can.
Glenn Thomas Shapiro
President of Personal Property-Liability & Director
Well it's a challenging question I'll tell you because there's a lot of stops in the process where for
example people go online they start to get a quote. And the agency that's nearest to them pops up with
that quote and they decide to drop off make a phone call and that's one path.
There's multiple paths people take through. The vast majority of our business is written by a local agent.
That said all the data and research out there tells you that the vast majority of people start their process
online at least get some understanding and then want to talk to somebody about it. So we've got a mix
of that and imperfect data for me to give you any more specifics on that.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
And then I was hoping you could give us a bit of a peek on some of these new product initiatives. I
guess in particular trying to understand the price sensitivity or whatever. I mean obviously you're a
captive agent. Are you thinking new business pricing down 10% or something like that? I'm just trying to
understand like how much of a driver do you think that is for potential new issued applications.
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Ryan I'm not sure we understood the question. We're not -- maybe you could rephrase it.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
Yes. No. So I'll ask it this way. Like 2 or 3 years ago Travelers who's obviously an independent agent
player they just announced that they were cutting new business prices by 10%. I could see how that
could have more of an impact in like an agency distribution channel versus a captive. I'm wondering if
that's how you see it as well. Or if you think that -- am I missing something? Or is there a similar level of
price elasticity in captive as what you might see in agent like could that be a big driver for growth?
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
Okay. Let me maybe start with the last piece and work my way up and anybody else wants to jump in. So
first there -- it's of course always hard to tell how much price elasticity there is within an agency.
In general you would think that an agency that had multiple companies and could share those multiple
quotes because there would be more price elasticity than in a captive agent.
That said people can call around to 3 or 4 people and get their points of view. So auto insurance in
particular is price sensitive. Although we've talked at length at us trying to have profitable growth like
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 18
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
that's what we're trying to do. The redesign of the products is on all of our products auto home and a
variety of different products where there are things we think we can do to make them less complicated.
And so for example this year we rewrote the renters policy in one state and took it size down by 40%.
That gets to less complexity helping customers understand it. So we're doing the proper.
But we also have a variety of other products in the circle of protection we're trying to get to. So we don't
sell Identity Protection today through our Allstate agents. Makes sense that we have customers who
come to Allstate agents probably would like to get their identity protected. How do we do that? How
do we get the systems to work how do we get the technology platform do it? How does Glenn factor it
into compensation and everything else is something we're working on. And that's part of transformative
growth on a longer basis.
So we have many products we sell through many channels. But we don't sell all of our products through all
of our channels. And that's part of transformative growth is how do we sell more of what we sell already in
more of the places that we sell. Does that get to your -- I think that gets -- okay.
Operator
Our final question then for today comes from the line of Michael Zaremski from Crédit Suisse.
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
First question if I -- the P&C investment portfolio the duration has increased fairly measurably over the
last few years up to 5-plus years now. I was just curious do you continue to see that elongating? Or are
you kind of at the high-end of your kind of the range you're comfortable with versus kind of the duration
of liabilities?
Unknown Executive
Yes Mike it's John. Thanks for the question. Look you never know exactly what the future holds. So
we're always going to respond to economic conditions overall risk environment of our firm and structure
the portfolio that way. I would say that what we've seen in terms of the duration extension in recent time.
And a lot of that's taken place in the last 18 months was more of a reaction back to strategic norm as
interest rates had been rising prior to that with the Fed -- with the cycle that the Fed was in. We thought
that it was prudent to stay a little bit short and looked to recapture higher yields that are better -- when
there's a better opportunity.
We couple that with a little bit. If you go back 18 to 24 months the economic situation in the U.S. and the
world was different. It was softer at that time and it wasn't clear that policymakers were going to engage.
They were in a tightening cycle. We thought that they needed to engage. We also wanted to put a little bit
of inflation -- recession protection back in the portfolio when you have more duration. If the economy falls
off it tends to help your portfolio and balance it out more. So we did actively highly coordinated internally
with all our risk processes extend the duration. It had a number of benefits that we're pleased with. It did
increase income which is a positive. It also did build in a more balanced portfolio balanced out our risk-
based assets.
And if you look at -- this isn't perfect math but if you look back at where rates were when we did most
of the extension relative to where they are today. It's been a great price increase in our fixed-income
securities. Rates are roughly market yields when you include where treasuries were and where corporates
are roughly about 100 basis points lower than that time. So going forward we'll continue to monitor.
What I can assure you is that it will be highly coordinated inside. Tom talked earlier about our numerous
processes. Our capital allocation process with investments. We also work very closely with our enterprise
risk group to make sure that these are -- all our moves are well understood.
And we will -- we believe that proactive management investment portfolio is a way to add value to the
enterprise.
Michael David Zaremski
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 19
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Okay. That's helpful. Yes definitely it's been a great call. Lastly clearly a lot of questions about the new
commission structure. Maybe curious has policy growth -- has it been -- is it more and more weighted
towards a -- maybe a disproportionately smaller percentage of agencies? Has that changed over the
years? I know commission structure did change a number of years ago too. And it seems like it worked out
okay sales didn't fall apart. Maybe you could -- any color there would be great.
Thomas Joseph Wilson
Chairman President & CEO
I mean what Glenn's -- what our strategy is to have all of our agents growing and all of them be
productive.
As you point out not all of them get there every year. Sometimes that's what we do in a local market or
what -- the local market conditions. Some of that's what they do or what they don't do. So we don't -- this
commission change wasn't to address a problem. It was to seize an opportunity. And I think commission is
-- we move commissions around frequently like it's not -- it's -- it happens all the time. People do it in all
the businesses we're in. And our goal is to make sure that their objectives are aligned with our objectives.
Thank you all for -- let me just close by saying thank you. We had a good 2019. We're focused on
transformative growth in 2020 and we'll talk to you next quarter. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the
program. You may now disconnect. Good day.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 20
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 05 2020
Copyright © 2020 by S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
These materials have been prepared solely for information purposes based upon information generally available to the public
and from sources believed to be reliable. No content (including index data ratings credit-related analyses and data research
model software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified reverse engineered
reproduced or distributed in any form by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without the prior written permission
of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively S&P Global). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or
unauthorized purposes. S&P Global and any third-party providers (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy
completeness timeliness or availability of the Content. S&P Global Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions regardless
of the cause for the results obtained from the use of the Content. THE CONTENT IS PROVIDED ON "AS IS" BASIS. S&P GLOBAL
PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE FREEDOM FROM BUGS SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS
THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE
OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Global Parties be liable to any party for any direct indirect incidental
exemplary compensatory punitive special or consequential damages costs expenses legal fees or losses (including without
limitation lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in connection with any use of the Content
even if advised of the possibility of such damages. S&P Global Market Intelligence's opinions quotes and credit-related and other
analyses are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact or recommendations to purchase
hold or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P Global Market
Intelligence may provide index data. Direct investment in an index is not possible. Exposure to an asset class represented by an
index is available through investable instruments based on that index. S&P Global Market Intelligence assumes no obligation to
update the Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the
skill judgment and experience of the user its management employees advisors and/or clients when making investment and other
business decisions. S&P Global Market Intelligence does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered
as such. S&P Global keeps certain activities of its divisions separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and
objectivity of their respective activities. As a result certain divisions of S&P Global may have information that is not available to
other S&P Global divisions. S&P Global has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P Global may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from
obligors. S&P Global reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P Global's public ratings and analyses are made
available on its Web sites www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge) and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription) and may be distributed through other means including via S&P Global publications and third-party redistributors.
Additional information about our ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
© 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 21