
 
The Hartford Financial Services Group 
Inc. NYSE:HIG
FQ3 2019 Earnings Call Transcripts
Tuesday November 05 2019 2:00 PM GMT
S&P Global Market Intelligence Estimates
  -FQ3 2019- -FQ4 2019- -FY 2019- -FY 2020-
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS CONSENSUS CONSENSUS
EPS Normalized  1.23 1.50 21.95 1.38 5.41 5.55
Revenue  (mm) 5220.50 5347.00 2.42 - - 21434.29
Currency: USD
Consensus as of  Nov-05-2019 10:34 AM GMT
    - EPS NORMALIZED  -  
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE
FQ4 2018 0.57 0.78 36.84 %
FQ1 2019 1.24 1.39 12.10 %
FQ2 2019 1.14 1.33 16.67 %
FQ3 2019 1.23 1.50 21.95 %
1
COPYRIGHT © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
Contents
Table of Contents
 
Call Participants .................................................................................. 3
Presentation .................................................................................. 4
Question and Answer .................................................................................. 10
2
COPYRIGHT © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Call Participants
EXECUTIVES
Beth Costello
Executive VP & CFO
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Susan Spivak Bernstein
Senior Investor Relations Officer
ANALYSTS
Amit Kumar Michael David Zaremski
The Buckingham Research Group Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Incorporated
Ryan James Tunis
Brian Robert Meredith Autonomous Research LLP
UBS Investment Bank Research
Division
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
David Kenneth Motemaden Research Division
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities
Research Division
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Research Division
Gary Kent Ransom
Dowling & Partners Securities LLC
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research
Division
Jon Paul Newsome
Sandler O'Neill + Partners L.P.
Research Division
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 3
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. Third Quarter Financial Results
Conference Call and Webcast. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Susan Spivak of Investor Relations. The floor is yours
ma'am.
Susan Spivak Bernstein
Senior Investor Relations Officer
Thank you and good morning and thank you for joining us today for our call and webcast on third quarter
2019 earnings. We reported our results yesterday afternoon and posted all the earnings-related materials
including the 10-Q on our website.
For the call today our speakers are: Chris Swift Chairman and CEO of The Hartford; Doug Elliot
President; and Beth Costello Chief Financial Officer. Following their prepared remarks we will have a Q&A
period.
Just a final few comments before Chris begins. Today's call includes forward-looking statements as defined
under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and actual results could be materially different. We do not assume any obligation to update
information or forward-looking statements provided on this call. Investors should also consider the risks
and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from these statements. A detailed description of
those risks and uncertainties can be found in our SEC filings.
Our commentary today includes non-GAAP financial measures. Explanations and reconciliations of these
measures to the comparable GAAP measure are included in our SEC filing as well as in the news release
and financial supplement.
Finally please note that no portion of this conference call may be reproduced or rebroadcast in any form
without The Hartford's prior written consent. Replays of this webcast and an official transcript will be
available on The Hartford's website for 1 year.
I'll now turn the call over to Chris.
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
The Hartford had an excellent quarter with strong financial results across all our business lines. Third
quarter core earnings rose 31% over prior year to $548 million or $1.50 per diluted share with lower
catastrophe losses and continued solid investment results. Our businesses are performing very well.
Book value per diluted share excluding AOCI was up 8% to $42.55 from year-end. The consolidated 12-
month core earnings ROE was 12.3% an impressive result in the current market environment. The strong
execution of our strategy is demonstrated by our consistent operating performance quarter-to-quarter
delivering on key integration milestones and continuing to invest in our business to enhance customer
experience and efficiency.
Doug and Beth will cover results in more detail but I wanted to touch briefly on a few items. Commercial
Lines highlights in the third quarter include: core earnings of $303 million up 14% over prior year; solid
top line growth with and without Navigators; and a renewal pricing rate acceleration compared to the first
half of the year.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 4
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
When we announced the acquisition of Navigators more than a year ago an important part of our strategy
was to broaden our underwriting and product capabilities as a global specialty player. An added benefit
was the expansion of our distribution relationships into the wholesale channel to serve more risk needs of
customers. Nearly 6 months have passed since we've closed the Navigators transaction. The progress to
date is on track and I'm very pleased with the collaboration amongst the teams and the positive reception
from distribution partners.
Our book is benefiting from the strong pricing tailwinds in the market providing the opportunity to restore
certain product lines within Global Specialty to targeted financial returns.
Personal Lines core earnings were $87 million up 85% benefiting from lower catastrophe losses and
favorable prior year development. While up slightly from prior year the underlying combined ratio of 92.3
for Personal Lines was a strong result. Our primary focus in this business has been returning to growth
with new business up 34% in the quarter.
Overall net favorable reserve development for Property & Casualty was $47 million in the quarter. There
were both favorable and unfavorable development in various lines. Our experienced actuarial and claims
teams have demonstrated the ability to identify emerging trends within our data which is used to update
our estimates each quarter. Overall I am confident in our loss reserve estimates.
Group Benefits delivered another excellent quarter with core earnings of $141 million up 38%. The
increase versus prior year was driven by favorable loss ratio higher net investment income and lower
amortization of intangibles. This was partially offset by increased investments in technology claims
management and higher commissions related to our voluntary products. The total loss ratio improved 4.4
points driven by favorable disability results partially offset by a deterioration in the life loss ratio. The
improvement in the disability continues to come from favorable incidence trends. Results also benefited
from updates to our claim recovery assumptions and the recognition of an experience refund related to
New York Paid Family Leave product for accident year 2018.
In group life severity was elevated in the quarter. However we don't see any consistent trend other
than normal volatility. On the top line fully insured ongoing premiums were just off slightly versus prior
year. Persistency is running slightly below historical trends as we adjust pricing on targeted segments
of the Aetna book. Importantly earned premium on the Aetna book of business is in line with our deal
assumptions and conversions of cases continues to go very well from both a platform and pricing
perspective. Overall we are very pleased with the operational execution and financial performance of
Group Benefits.
Before I turn the call over to Doug I wanted to make a few comments on the macro environment. The
property and casualty industry is facing a number of challenges that have been well documented. Net
investment income is under pressure in what is likely a prolonged period of low interest rates affecting
new money and overall portfolio yields. The frequency of severe weather-related storms as well as
other catastrophic events such as wildfires are elevated pressuring rates to keep up with CAT trends.
Social inflation related to larger claims settlement continue to put pressure on loss cost trends. However
social inflation is not a new phenomenon. We have been monitoring these trends for years taking the
appropriate actions to ensure our pricing models and underwriting reflect these realities.
To conclude with 1 quarter left in the year our experience through the first 9 months is generally
consistent with the outlook we provided with no major surprises. The successful integration and execution
of our 2 recent transactions strong financial results and capital management demonstrate our strategy is
working. It is an exciting time at The Hartford for all our stakeholders: customers employees distribution
partners and shareholders. I am confident in our ability to produce consistent results contributing to
shareholder value creation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Doug.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
The Hartford's Property & Casualty results for the quarter were strong. Top line growth was fueled by the
Navigators acquisition while underlying organic growth in Commercial Lines was a solid 4%.
In Personal Lines new business growth is up significantly from third quarter 2018 but has moderated
from earlier in the year. We're pleased with the underlying returns across all of our Property & Casualty
businesses as each continues to execute effectively.
It was a relatively benign quarter for catastrophes as losses were well below third quarter 2018. Current
year CAT losses in the quarter totaled $106 million $63 million less than a year ago.
In aggregate Property & Casualty reported favorable prior year development of $47 million this quarter.
Improving severity trends across workers' compensation Small Commercial's package business and
Personal Lines auto all drove favorable reserve releases. Partially offsetting these releases was reserve
strengthening in commercial auto liability and general liability driven by some large loss activity.
As Chris has already mentioned there's been a fair amount of commentary during the quarter regarding
social inflation and we're certainly not immune to these unfavorable tort trends. However keep in mind
our Hartford book is made up primarily of smaller customers with lower limit profiles. In addition the
adverse development cover we purchased on the Navigators loss development provides another layer of
protection.
Over the past few years while we've observed higher loss trends we've also adjusted general liability
and commercial auto reserves accordingly. At the same time we've made underwriting and pricing
adjustments to our book in response to these trends. We actively monitor these trends and will continue to
take appropriate actions as necessary.
Let me now shift into the results for our business segments. The underlying combined ratio for
Commercial Lines which excludes catastrophes and prior year development was 93.9 deteriorating 0.2
point from last year but a strong performance nonetheless. As expected the Navigators book generated
approximately 1 point of increase on the combined ratio. This was partially offset by favorable non-CAT
property results.
I'm encouraged by the pricing environment in the quarter. Our renewal written pricing in Standard
Commercial Lines was 2.8% up 40 basis points sequentially from second quarter and up 90 basis points
from prior year. This positive pricing change remains somewhat depressed by the current workers'
compensation pricing environment.
Middle Market pricing excluding workers' compensation was 5.6% in the quarter up 130 basis points
from second quarter and up 180 basis points from the prior year. The strong improvement reflects the rate
actions we're taking across our core lines. Given industry loss trends and operating performance in these
nonworkers' compensation lines I expect this pricing trend to persist.
Let's now take a look inside our Commercial Line business units. Small Commercial continued its excellent
performance with an underlying combined ratio of 87.9. The margin improvement versus last year was
driven primarily by lower non-CAT property losses and lower underwriting expenses. Written premium was
flat to prior year due to renewal written pricing decreases in workers' compensation and the completion of
the new business rollover from the Foremost renewal rights transaction. Excluding Foremost new business
premium growth was up a very strong 13% for the quarter driven by workers' compensation and package
business.
We expect continued new business growth to come from the launch of our next-generation package
offering we call Spectrum. This is much more than just a new product release. With this modular policy
and the enhanced platform that supports it we've taken our industry-leading capabilities to a new level
making buying small business insurance easier than ever. A consumer buying small business insurance
from The Hartford now receives tailored recommendations for their coverage or the ability to customize
their own. Their agent is able to view real-time pricing much the same way an online retail shopper can
see a running total of the costs of products placed in their cart. As of today we're live in 32 states and
will be in 45 by year-end. We are already seeing increases in quotes and additional optional coverage
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
selections. This game-changing product launch only adds to our excitement about our long-term prospects
for growth in this segment.
In Middle & Large Commercial the underlying combined ratio of 99.6 improved 1.6 points from 2018
driven primarily by lower non-CAT property losses. Notably inland marine losses which were elevated
in the second quarter have moderated. Written premium was up 12% over last year due in part to the
addition of certain legacy Navigator businesses within Middle & Large Commercial. Ex Navigators written
premium was up 7% with strong production in National Accounts large property and programs as well as
in verticals such as construction and energy.
We're achieving rate increases across Middle & Large Commercial. Our property and auto rate increases
are up sequentially in the quarter over 100 basis points with liability not far behind.
In Global Specialty the underlying combined ratio of 96.2 deteriorated 6.4 points primarily the result of
including the Navigators book this quarter. Since the acquisition we've been aggressively reunderwriting
and repricing portions of the Navigators book. In the third quarter we achieved double-digit rate increases
on both the Navigators U.S. and international business with significant rate acceleration during the quarter
and since the first quarter of this year.
In the U.S. we achieved strong underwriting results in our management and professional liability and
surety lines. We're also pleased with both renewal pricing and new business generation from our wholesale
distribution channel in the U.S.
In international we've taken significant actions to address 2-plus years of subpar returns in our Lloyd's
syndicate and London market portfolio. In addition to the aggressive pricing actions we're taking on this
book we've exited certain underperforming lines and reduced significantly the number of binders MGAs
and line slips across the portfolio. We've also materially reduced the overall limits deployed in several
lines including D&O E&O and casualty.
Our Global Specialty team is off to a terrific start. They're actively addressing opportunities in the book as
well as taking advantage of favorable market conditions where appropriate. Integration efforts continue
including expertise sharing in data science technology product design claim and many other areas.
Executing across core risk functions will play an important role in improving the financial performance of
this business. We fully expect Global Specialty to be a significant contributor to Commercial's premium
growth as profit returns to target return levels.
Moving to Personal Lines. The underlying combined ratio of 92.3 deteriorated 50 basis points from the
third quarter of 2018 but still a very good overall result. The expense ratio increased nearly 1 point
due to the impact of lower earned premium while the loss ratio improved 40 basis points. The loss ratio
improvement is reflected in both our auto and homeowner results driven by earned pricing increases and
non-CAT homeowners experience.
New business growth was up 34% compared to prior year. This was another positive new business quarter
as marketing spend and product adjustments continue to gain traction.
In AARP Direct auto our critical production levers including flow close ratios and new sales all improved
compared to prior year. Importantly we're pleased with the underlying profile of this growth and
encouraged by the improving trends.
Despite continued strong improvement in direct new business growth total written premium was down
4%. Though we've made progress to improve the profitability of our AARP book more work is needed on
retention and new business to return to positive growth.
In summary this was a very strong quarter across our Property & Casualty businesses. We're executing
effectively against our plans while responding to loss cost trends and competitive market dynamics. We're
taking appropriate pricing actions and making disciplined underwriting decisions. This is driving clear
progress in lines and accounts that need to improve overall profitability. Meanwhile we remain extremely
encouraged by the product breadth and depth of the underwriting talent that the Navigators acquisition
is contributing and we're already seeing the impact of these additions in our businesses and with our
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
distribution partners. The positive progress on key milestones drive my bullish outlook on our future. I
look forward to updating you all in another 90 days.
Let me now turn the call over to Beth.
Beth Costello
Executive VP & CFO
Thank you Doug. Today I'm going to cover third quarter results for the investment portfolio Hartford
Funds and Corporate and provide an update on capital management.
Our investment portfolio continues to perform very well with strong limited partnership returns and
generally stable investment yields. Net investment income was $490 million for the quarter up $46 million
or 10% from the prior year. Excluding Navigators net investment income was $462 million or 4% higher
than the prior year.
The annualized limited partnership return was 15.3% in the quarter due to higher valuations on underlying
funds. Lower interest rates and tighter credit spreads increased net unrealized gains on fixed maturities
after tax to $1.8 billion at September 30 up from $1.4 billion at June 30. Unrealized and realized gains on
equity securities classified and realized capital gains in the income statement were $19 million before tax
in the quarter and $181 million before tax through September 30.
The credit performance of the investment portfolio remains very strong. Net impairments in the quarter
totaled $1 million flat with third quarter 2018.
Given the increasing likelihood of sustained low interest rates I wanted to touch on how we manage the
portfolio in this environment and the impact to the portfolio yield due to lower rates. We have a broad
range of investment capabilities and a well-diversified portfolio. Our strategy does not pursue lower
credit quality for the purpose of making up for lower yields and we will continue to invest in a diversified
manner. For the quarter our current yield before tax excluding limited partnerships was 3.6% equating
to $425 million. Taking into consideration potential lower reinvestment rates projected using the forward
curve we could see the portfolio yield excluding limited partnerships decline by close to 10 basis points
in 2020 reducing the quarterly run rate of net investment income by approximately $10 million before
tax.
Turning to Hartford Funds. Core earnings of $39 million were down 5% from last year but up $1
million sequentially. Daily average AUM rose 2% from second quarter 2019 reflecting strong market
performance partially offset by net outflows. Investment performance remains very strong. As of
September 30 about 70% of Hartford Funds outperformed peers on a 1- 3- and 5-year basis.
Corporate core losses of $37 million improved by $8 million from third quarter 2018. The principal driver
of the improvement this quarter was $11 million of income after tax from our retained equity interest in
Talcott compared to $1 million in third quarter 2018.
During the quarter we continued to repurchase shares. Year-to-date through November 1 we have
repurchased 2.2 million shares for $126 million. With strong capital generation and financial flexibility we
are pleased to be able to both invest in our businesses and return capital to shareholders.
During the third quarter we issued $1.4 billion of debt comprised of $600 million 10-year 2.8% senior
notes and $800 million 30-year 3.6% senior notes. We used the proceeds to redeem approximately
$1.65 billion of debt with a weighted average coupon of 5.3%. The redemption resulted in a loss on
extinguishment of debt of $90 million before tax. We continue to plan to repay our $500 million 5.5%
senior notes maturing in March 2020 which will put us in line with our leverage targets.
Book value per diluted share excluding AOCI was $42.55 up 8% year-to-date and 9% since September
30 2018. Core earnings ROE over the last 12 months was 12.3% well in excess of our cost of equity
capital.
A few other items to comment on before I close. We have included disclosure in the 10-Q about the
potential for subrogation recoveries from PG&E related to losses incurred on certain 2017 and 2018
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
California wildfires. Given uncertainties with respect to approval of the PG&E bankruptcy plan we have
not recognized any subrogation recoveries to date. Based on subrogation claims submitted by all insurers
to PG&E and the terms of the proposed settlement which is contingent upon approval of the bankruptcy
plan we would expect gross subrogation recoveries to be approximately $325 million although the actual
amount we collect is subject to uncertainty. The first $116 million of any such subrogation recoveries
would reduce reinsurance recoverables we have recorded under our CAT reinsurance treaties. Accordingly
any benefit to income would be for subrogation recoveries in excess of $116 million.
Turning to fourth quarter. It has already been an active quarter for catastrophe-related events. Our budget
for CATs in the fourth quarter is approximately $80 million pretax. Before considering any losses from
the current California wildfires we are approaching $80 million of catastrophe losses in the month of
October including losses from tornadoes in the Dallas area and other wind events. While it is still too early
to make an estimate of losses we may incur from the current California wildfires we are monitoring the
fires closely in the areas we have insured properties and businesses at risk.
As a reminder in the fourth quarter we will complete our annual study of asbestos and environmental
reserves. Under the adverse development cover we purchased in 2016 we have $977 million of remaining
coverage available for increases in these reserves. Also we did not cede any additional net loss reserves in
the third quarter to our adverse development cover for Navigators so we continue to have $209 million of
coverage available on that book of business.
To summarize the execution of our strategy is generating strong results across our business lines. The
integration of Navigators is on track and we look forward to continuing to update you on our progress.
I'll now turn the call over to Susan so we can begin the Q&A session.
Susan Spivak Bernstein
Senior Investor Relations Officer
Thank you Beth. We have about 30 minutes for questions. Operator can you please repeat the
instructions for asking a question?
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Question and Answer
Operator
[Operator Instructions] And the first question we have will come from Elyse Greenspan of Wells Fargo.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
First off Beth I do appreciate the new kind of streamlined disclosure within the press release. That was
helpful this quarter. My first question for you is on capital. Just following up on some of your prepared
remarks. It seems like you guys got the majority of the tax attributes you were expecting this year as of
the end of the third quarter just looking at the 10-Q disclosure. So I just kind of wanted to walk through
that and get a sense of share repurchases for the fourth quarter. And then for next year on the capital
side is -- could you just give us a sense of the dividends you could upstream from the P&C subs in 2020
and also if there's any change in the tax attributes you expect as well?
Beth Costello
Executive VP & CFO
Sure. So first of all thank you for the comment on the press release. I'm glad that you like the new
format. So yes as it relates to holding company cash I would say overall we're on track with what we
expected at the beginning of the year. Yes the timing of the tax benefit we received from our AMT refund
did come in a little bit earlier than we anticipated but we were anticipating that this year. So we took all
of that into consideration as we have projected kind of our view of share repurchases over the course of
this year and into next year. And we continue to target for this year about a total of $200 million in share
repurchases and then the remainder of our $1 billion authorization would be used in 2020.
As it relates to then dividend streams as we go into 2020 again as a reminder we did not take any net
dividends from P&C in 2019 but we do anticipate going back to our normal cadence in 2020. And as we've
talked about in the past we see dividends sort of in the $850 million to $900 million range. Obviously
it will depend on actual results. From our Group Benefits business we're typically in the $300 million
to $350 million range. Obviously results in Group Benefits have been very strong so we've seen some
increases in those dividends through the years. And then Mutual Funds usually is in that $100 million
to $125 million. And then we do still have some remaining tax benefits that we'd expect to receive in
2020. So when we look at 2019 we're probably a little bit over $700 million in tax benefits that will come
through. And as we look to 2020 we'd be just slightly under $600 million. So again very much in line
with what we have laid out previously.
And then again I'll just remind you as I said in my prepared remarks we do still anticipate paying our
maturing debt of $500 million in March of 2020.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
That's very helpful. And then my second question. If we want to kind of keep track of how Navigators is
trending you guys highlighted some earnings projections for that business going a couple of years out.
So just trying to get a sense can you kind of set the stage or give us a sense how much earnings came
through in the quarter? Or is the best way for us just to really look at the Global Specialty margins to get
a sense of how Navigators is tracking?
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Elyse thank you for your question. I would say what we've commented upon in the past as far as our
goals related to the financial performance of Navigators are really unchanged. I think we did say that the
slope of it might be slightly different the components might be slightly different but we still see a path
to earning $200 million of core earnings prior to amortization of intangibles in that 4- to 5-year period of
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
time and still excited. Obviously there's a lot of rate being taken in the specialty space broadly defined.
But Doug that's what I would say over the long term. But what would you say in the near term?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Just to add that this quarter we made very few adjustments to the prior Navigators loss ratios across their
lines either prior year or in the current accident year. We tweaked auto liability slightly in the quarter. But
other than that Beth it was a pretty quiet quarter relative to actuarial assumptions.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
Okay. And then can you give us a sense of the rate that you're getting just within their book of business?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. I mentioned in my commentary Elyse that it was double digits. And in the quarter essentially the
U.S. book was right on top of 10. Internationally they were getting closer to 16. And when you put the 2
together we're talking 12-ish 11 to 12 points of price. I also said that it was accelerating in the quarter.
So we're quite pleased about that as you think about the run rate July through September. And an early
peak of October keeps me optimistic. October looks a lot like September.
So I think we're off to a really good start. I'm very pleased with the progress. I know Vince and his team
working hard to change the outcomes here.
Operator
Next we have Paul Newsome of Sandler O'Neill.
Jon Paul Newsome
Sandler O'Neill + Partners L.P. Research Division
I was hoping you could weigh in a little bit more on some of the auto trends that we've seen at other
companies. Both the commercial auto trend and the severity and frequency seems to be a little bit
different by company and kind of how you vary that what your experiences have and sort of what you
think is behind it.
And then a sort of second question just flip over to the private passenger and ask kind of the same
questions about frequency and severity. Allstate saw a little bit of a spike in their frequency for physical
damage and I don't know if you've seen the same thing.
Anyway those are my -- essentially my 2 questions.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Paul let me just clarify. Personal and Commercial both do you want me to go...
Jon Paul Newsome
Sandler O'Neill + Partners L.P. Research Division
Yes both.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Okay. Let's start with Personal. We continue to be pleased by the trends we see in our Personal Lines auto
book. Frequency has been in good shape for several quarters now. And severity we're mindful of collision
severity. But essentially our loss trends are within our expectations and feel good about progress and
overall performance of the Personal Lines auto line.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
In Commercial a bit of a different story in the sense that our Small Commercial book much smaller
vehicle. We've been working rate now for 5 to 6 years. We have transformed that book. We're essentially
not a monoline player except in certain circumstances. Improvement there but more improvement
necessary in the commercial auto Small Commercial space.
In the middle -- again this is not a specialty auto sector. This is essentially commercial auto fleets
attached to our Middle Market accounts. Slightly heavier than Small Commercial. We also have been
chasing rate here over the last 6 to 7 years. We've made progress but not at all acceptable relative to our
operating performance in the line today. So we continue to make underwriting adjustments. We'll continue
to work hard on rate. Very pleased that our rate was up over 10 points in Q3 in auto. We'll continue to
work at that in Q4 and into 2020.
When I think about loss trend they look to us like they're in the mid-single digits maybe plus a little bit
in that 5 to 6 6.5 range commercial auto. We're mindful of that which means our pricing needs to be on
top of that plus some to make appreciable progress in combined ratio. Chris or Beth anything?
Jon Paul Newsome
Sandler O'Neill + Partners L.P. Research Division
Do you have any particular theory about the commercial business that might be different from other folks
about why we're seeing the severity trend and whether or not it's accelerating?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
I would just offer that our book of business on the commercial side ex Nav is largely primary auto. So
we're not a significant player in the excess space. I do think the excess layers have had some pressure
over the past 3 4 years. Navigators has a specialty auto book. We're very mindful of that. We're working
closely with them sharing our trends working actuarial assumptions et cetera and taking quite a bit
of rate there. So our rate change in the Navigator auto book is substantial. But I don't have any greater
insight because I don't have insight into other competitor books like I do our own.
Operator
Next we have Brian Meredith of UBS.
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
A couple of quick ones here. First I'm just curious in the Commercial Lines segment the expense ratio
declined year-over-year only around 17% growth in G&A expenses. I was expecting it to be a little bit
higher than that. Was there anything unusual there? Is that a decent run rate with respect to kind of G&A
expense growth and what we're seeing with the expense ratio?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. Good question Brian. And there are some things happening in both Q2 and Q3 that make that
compare a little bit challenging. So let me do my best to unpack it. In Q3 quarter we actually had some
credits that ran through from taxes licenses and fees and also some bad debt credits. And when you kind
of laser them in you basically get a quarterly expense ratio more like 34.5.
In Q2 we had some one-timers that put some upward pressure on the expense. And I'd also point out to
you as the Navigators book comes into our expense ratios as a typical specialty company sometimes has
they've got slightly higher expense base. So between their U.S. and certainly their international there's a
little bit of inflation on the expense coming in from Nav that we will work our way through over the next
couple of years as we earn our way toward those profit targets we've talked about.
So I look at the run rate Q3 more in the 34.5 range and I think that's kind of where we'll be Q4 as I look
out.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Great. And then my second question in the Small Commercial area I mean you talked about how it's
a little bit more insulated from the social inflation environment given the kind of limits profile of that
business. I'm curious have you seen any increasing competition in that area as a result of what's going on
in the loss cost inflation environment?
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Brian as Doug -- he'll respond too. I would say again across many of our businesses there is always
competitive pressure. There's new entrants. There's fintech-related or insurtech-related activities but I
wouldn't say it's rapidly changing in a more competitive environment where everyone is piling in. I would
say -- and you've heard us talk about this before we have a 30-year history here with a lot of data a
lot of capabilities a lot of deep trusted agent relationships that does provide an element of advantage to
us. But we're really tuned in on the emerging trends and our own mindset of what do we need to do to
continue to get better every day what do we need to do to continue to differentiate ourselves as one of
the top go-to market. So that's our mindset. And Doug if you would add anything?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. So maybe just a couple of comments about our new Spectrum and then comments on what we've
been working on the last couple of years. So very excited Brian about this launch of next-gen Spectrum.
We've been kind of in the design and building stage for a couple of years now and I think it's going to be
a terrific product in the market much in the way the digital experiences that we're all used to are now
personalized. Because of that launch we've been laser-focused these last couple of years to get our rate
adequacies on our Spectrum product where they need to be because it's very difficult if you're profit-
challenged in the current line and then go to launch new product.
So as we think about loss trends over these last couple of years we've continued to make sure we're on
top of those trends with pricing. We see liability trends in that Spectrum area still in the mid-single digits
and our pricing has been matching that over time and we feel good about our balance sheet in terms of
the reserves that are recorded on our ledger. So yes we've been very focused on loss trends here. I think
good progress and now exciting that we launch our new effort into the latter half of 2019 into 2020.
Operator
Next we have Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
I have a couple of questions for Doug. And first on Commercial Lines how do you think about your
ability to take advantage of improving pricing in the overall market especially given that you've got a big
exposure to workers' comp where prices are actually obviously under pressure?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Well we're optimistic that our nonworkers' compensation pricing continues to improve. As I suggested
that certainly was the case in Q3 and I expect that to continue into Q4. Yes we recognize we have some
headwinds on the workers' comp environment. I would again point out the profitability of those books
is excellent particularly Small Commercial. So we're mindful of those headwinds and navigating in the
middle account by account and being thoughtful about class selection and state and geography in Small
Commercial.
So yes it is a tale of 2 where we're working hard to improve our core pricing while we understand is a
very competitive workers' comp dynamic that matters greatly to us.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
And then on Personal Lines I think you would hope that at some point over the next few quarters you'll
start to see stabilizing premiums and maybe an improvement in premiums. But it seems like more and
more companies are sort of shifting their focus from revolving margins to accelerating growth. Just
comments on competition whether it's still rational and your expectation of when you can sort of get to
flat to positive premium growth in that market.
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Jimmy obviously we're not going to give any guidance or specific drivers but the overall focus as both
Doug and I have commented upon has been growth orientation but you are right. I mean it's a dynamic
marketplace just because we want to grow and there's a lot of other competitors that are shifting to that
same mindset. So the trick in that environment at least in my judgment is you got to remain disciplined.
You got to again segment appropriately your new business by states or territories that make sense for
you compared to where your pricing is. And the team is executing very well. It just -- we're getting the
responses just not converting as many new business opportunities as feasible. But Doug that's what I
would say.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. I agree Chris. And I think we lay out in the supplement you can see we've made very good progress
on the retention front. Still think there's a little more work to be done there. I think there's a little bit more
left. And then absolutely we are focused on adjusting and thinking carefully about what we do on the new
business front because we want to raise those levels of new business successes.
Operator
Next we have Ryan Tunis of Autonomous Research.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
First question for Doug on I guess keeping it here on commercial auto. And just thinking about --
it seems like over the past call it half decade we've been talking about commercial auto reserve
development and it feels like we've been talking about it probably more at Hartford than a lot of
competitors. Maybe not so much over the past year but I'd just be curious to maybe hear your thoughts
on the extent to which maybe you feel like you got ahead of some of these trends maybe in '15 '16 and
'17. And then to the extent that you're seeing something new what is new in this 2019 environment that
you potentially had the reserve for contemplated prior to this?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Ryan thanks. Let's just start on the quarter and then I do want to comment because I think you're
onto something relative to the prior trend. So in this quarter we made an adjustment to our prior year
development based on some large losses we had seen in our National Account book. So it's largely
National Accounts I would say almost all National Accounts. 80% of the change is National Accounts. And
it's something that we had not adjusted in the last several years. So really exclusively our national book.
If you go back over 5 to 6 years correctly stated we have been adjusting auto. I would say back in the
'12 '13 time period we had a broader specialty auto book transportation vehicles that caused some
of the adjustment and actually raised our attention to this commercial auto dynamic that we've been
working hard on for 5 or 6 years. So I would agree with you. If you've looked at what we've done in the
commercial auto space on our reserves and our current accident year underwriting and pricing this has
been an ongoing work in process for us. We did some tuning in the quarter. But more importantly we
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
continue to leverage the findings in our book of business to do the best job we can at underwriting and
profitability book going forward and we're sharing them with Navigators as we come together.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
Perfect. And then maybe for Chris just on Group Benefits. Obviously seeing some very favorable trends
there. And I guess what surprises a P&C analyst is how well pricing seems to hold up. So I'm curious
in your view how does the pricing cycle kind of work for Group Benefits? Is -- are you seeing more
competition there? What insulates Group Benefits from seeing I guess some of the same trends we've
seen in workers' comp over the next couple of years?
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Sure Ryan. I would say yes we are performing very well as I -- and I said in my commentary I think
we've provided enough data to say that there were a couple of one-timers in this quarter. So I look at it
that the quarter was roughly more in line with that $120 million earnings at an 8% margin but clearly
above our long-term views that we've guided to which is still 6% to 7%.
I think the thing that you just have to keep in mind is a lot of the results that are emerging today are
based on pricing and commitments we've made 2 3 years ago that are just outperforming. So unlike P&C
we generally make 3-year rate guarantees. We're very thoughtful and disciplined in making those 3-year
rate guarantees because that's the commitment. So we're just outperforming the expectations both on
incidences and recoveries that is contributing to that current outperformance. So hopefully that helps you.
Operator
Next we have David Motemaden of Evercore.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Just a question for Doug. Just wanted to get a bit more detail on the changes that you guys made to
reserves in GL. And also just talk about what you're assuming on severity going forward and your loss
picks and what sort of rate you're seeking in the market right now.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes that was a multiple-component question. So let me do my best to work our way through. In other
liability general liability we made some tweaks really across years across businesses. I would say a
series of small tweaks a couple in the product area a couple umbrellas et cetera. Nothing significant in
any one pocket but largely across our Middle Market book of business. Construction included a little bit
of our specialty general liability book. So that really is the basis for the tweaking we did in the quarter for
general liability.
In a broader sense as we think about loss trends overall our loss trends are somewhere in that mid-
single-digit range when you combine all our lines and I'm thinking primarily about auto liability and
GL which are the 2 lines that really form the basis for most of your questions. So they may move a bit
between small and middle and some of our specialty lines with the specialty -- Global Specialty book
but we're talking about trying to be on top of mid-single-digit trends. And now our pricing across various
lines is either on top of slightly advancing on or appreciably on top of in the case of some of our specialty
excess areas. So I shared with you we're really pleased about some of these specialty areas that we've
had substantial movement in pricing -- double-digit moves in pricing where I feel like we're going to see
the benefits of that kind of work into our book in 2020 and beyond.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Got it. Great. And a question for -- just for Chris on the group business and top line. Specifically sales
were down a decent amount year-over-year. Just sort of wondering what you're seeing competitively and
also more specifically what your outlook would be for top line earned premium growth here over the next
few years as that now is more fully integrated.
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Sure David. I would say as I was trying to explain that I mean it is still a competitive environment out
there but there's still an element of rationality that I see most of our competitors exhibiting. You might
have an account or 2 or a new business opportunity where someone does something more aggressive but
generally competitive but balanced.
I would say that the year-over-year numbers that you're looking at does look down. But really when you
adjust for the New York Family Paid Leave product that launched in '18 you really have sort of a $40
million delta between year-to-date '19 compared to year-to-date '18. So really you can consider it slightly
down to flattish. So again I think we're still performing at a high level from our sales side. We do still get
some contribution to sales in that $40 million to $50 million range from Aetna's medical staff that is still
referring business and jointly selling. So we feel good about the overall sales performance.
As I said in my opening comments premiums are slightly down 1% on an earned basis primarily due to
just higher lapses lower persistency on the Aetna book as we're taking targeted actions to reprice those
books.
So everything is according to plan. But as we look forward I still see modest growth in top line for Group
Benefits really supported by some of our ancillary lines anchored in A&H and voluntary.
Operator
Next we have Mike Zaremski of Crédit Suisse.
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
I wouldn't mind maybe trying to get more color on next-gen Spectrum in terms of maybe you can just
kind of isolate what the major changes are. Is it -- from the commentary is it easier for your -- the
business owners to self-service? I'm just curious is there a direct selling component too potentially for
small businesses? And then also is there -- ultimately to measure the success do you expect sales to
accelerate or better profitability? Just any more color would be great since it seems like it's a big deal.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. Good question Mike and thank you for asking it. I'd start by saying yes this is a sales tool that
essentially will sit on the desktop of our CSRs customer service reps around the country and all the
agents and brokers we do business with. It's a tool that will allow them to be faster more insightful and
help their customers make choices. I would say inside the tool you should think about good better best
type dynamics. All the coverages very attuned to what a certain customer or SIC class would require
what types of optional coverages are there et cetera. So yes I think it's a best-in-class selling tool
with advice that either comes out of the blocks with a terrific offer for a customer or offers additional
coverages that a CSR will work with a potential customer to purchase. So that is at the basis of this
exciting innovation for us.
And then secondly yes we do expect over time our new sales in Spectrum to lift. It's hard to predict
but our expectations over the next couple of years is that we'll see some change in our new business sales
and we'll watch that carefully and report on that as we go through time.
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Okay. That's helpful. Lastly if we step back and kind of talk about -- in a broader sense about commercial
pricing versus loss cost trend is it fair to say that there's -- that if there is a bit gap it's not -- it hasn't
changed much quarter-over-quarter taking into account workers' comp? Any -- so it sounds like there
haven't been any meaningful notable changes over the last quarter.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
And is your question more in the loss trend area or the pricing area? Just so I'm...
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Well it's kind of both. It seems like pricing is moving north and trend might be moving a little bit north.
So net-net kind of similar to last quarter.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. I would agree with your statement in the aggregate. And then I think we'd have to parse it apart
by specialty by excess by primary financial lines Spectrum et cetera. So in the aggregate yes we see
lifting in pricing across middle nonworkers' comp as we've examined our loss trends. I would say largely
in the primary space pretty consistent with Q2. Yes maybe we are a little careful to make sure we're
catching some uptick in the social inflation dynamic but I don't think material in any given way.
And then in the specialty book yes we're spending a lot of time inside our excess umbrella our specialty
areas. And we're mindful of where trends are expecting a little bit of upward lift in those trends. And
therefore our pricing has been pretty aggressive there. So pleased with the progress on both fronts but I
think you have it about right.
Operator
Next we have Amit Kumar of Buckingham Research.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
Two quick follow-ups. Maybe going back to Mike's question on rate versus loss trends. So if you blend I
guess all the moving parts and look at Small Commercial as we head into 2020 is your sense that the
loss trend will end up running harder than what we expected hence the rate versus loss trend metric
does not expand? Or is it more a function of the book?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
So Amit let me start and Beth and Chris can go over the top. We're not prepared today to take into 2020
yet. What I am very pleased about is if you look at our metrics and our XX combineds across Commercial
and you see them for our segments I think we've done a nice job at dealing with loss trend getting
improving rate performance and across both our most profitable segment which is Small Commercial
kind of holding in margins that are terrific. And we're mindful that we need to make more meaningful
change in the Middle & Large Commercial area. So I look at an all-in Q3 number on top of Q2 and feel
pretty good about it. And as I mentioned in my earlier commentary we know there was a little bit upward
pressure from the Nav book coming in. We'll work our way through that. And at some point that will be a
positive because we'll start turning the tide on that number as we move into 2020.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
And I don't know if Chris or anyone has to add something to that.
Christopher Jerome Swift
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Chairman & CEO
No. Again I think Doug is accurate as always. I think the trick's going to be here everything is sort of
more granular right these days whether it be states products accounts. So when you add it all up I
think what Doug says makes perfect sense.
My particular point of view is that this could be a dynamic environment for the next couple of years for
sure because I don't think it's realistic at least in my expectation that 15 points of rate in a specialty
book in aggregate is going to get you back to targeted returns. As I said particularly as it relates to
Navigators we're taking a multiple-year journey to get to targeted earnings and returns. And I think a lot
of others are going to be in that same position where just 1 year of feeling good about high single-digit
or low double-digit rates in certain lines primarily specialty isn't going to cut it. And it's going to require a
multiyear approach.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
Got it. The only other question is on the last call I guess we had fine-tuned Navigators a bit. And Chris
on that call you had said $110-ish million was sort of the number for 2020. Are we still in the ballpark? Or
based on what has evolved are we somewhere in the middle or not?
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Yes. Obviously we're not going to give you any really specific details but the ranges that we put out I
still think are valid. As I said I'd anchor in the low end of that range and I'm not changing our views right
now at this point in time.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
Got it. Congrats on the print.
Operator
Next we have Gary Ransom of Dowling & Partners.
Gary Kent Ransom
Dowling & Partners Securities LLC
Most of my questions have been answered but I did want to follow up on the new Spectrum policy. And I
wondered specifically whether the -- there's a little bit of leapfrogging going on with other competitors in
their own system. Can you actually detect when someone else has something a new strong offering and
see a little bit of lowering of your quote volume then you put something out you see a little bit of higher?
And if you do does that last for a while? Does that have some duration? I'm just trying to get a sense of
the growth components and how those might play out.
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. Thanks Gary. We do watch all those statistics carefully. So we're able to watch quote volume we're
able to watch yield so the number of hits or successful quotes against total quotes. I would say relative
to competitors' rollout we watch what they put out publicly. And normally there's a little bit of a buzz
or discussion about enhancements or innovations in the marketplace. I'm sure very similar to what's
happening with our next-generation Spectrum offering right now. I think that's the easier way to find out
about things.
But we study the numbers. We're mindful of -- even the statistics I quoted in my script right we're
watching optional purchase -- optional coverage purchases right now. We're watching number of quotes.
And we have an expected trajectory that we expect to see over the next 3 or 4 quarters and so we'll be
right on top of that.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 18
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Gary Kent Ransom
Dowling & Partners Securities LLC
Is this something that will roll out to all the renewals? Or is it just something for new business?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Yes. We're quoting new business right now. As I said we're in mid-30 states. And by year-end we expect
to be essentially 45 and then we'll deal with the last couple of states next year. But new business I think
Gary today.
Operator
The next question we have will come from Yaron Kinar of Goldman Sachs.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
I want to start with one on the reserve development in Commercial Lines and sneak in another one on
Group Benefits. So with reserve development I think in recent years we've seen kind of initial loss picks
in both general liability and commercial auto come in a bit below most recent picks for our prior years.
Can you maybe talk about that dynamic and how comfortable you are with your picks for the more recent
years considering the fact that you have been increasing kind of the initial loss picks there? And is it just
pricing that you've achieved that's offset some of the weaker picks in prior years?
Douglas Graham Elliot
President
Let me start and then Beth can work over the top. I would say over the past 6-plus years we've been
working both pricing and underwriting. So we've been adjusting our offerings across the marketplace in
classes monoline group with other accounts et cetera. So multiple different options that we've been
working.
In general I would agree with you that we have been light on our accident picks at 12 months which is
the reason that if you look at our trend line we've made adjustments to those prior year picks over the
last 6 7 years and I think we do a nice job of disclosing that in our supplements. So the disappointment
is that loss trend obviously has been higher than we expected and we didn't get the punch that we
expected on the underwriting side. And so we're doubling down now. I think we continue to make
progress. Again I'd separate some of this discussion by class of vehicle whether we're talking Small
Commercial with primarily private passenger and light vans or Middle Market with some heavier or
the specialty area. And I think that our success or lack thereof is not very different than the overall
marketplace. But what we've tried to do is when we see something in the book we've addressed it both
on our reserve levels and also on the underwriting. And that's why I don't think there's anything new here.
It's just we just need to dive even harder. Beth?
Beth Costello
Executive VP & CFO
No. I think that summarizes it very well Doug.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
Okay. And then on the Group Benefits side is the experience in claims recoveries that you've seen for
recent vintages do you expect that to kind of continue? Is that baked into your estimates today? Or do
you expect some reversion back to mean?
Christopher Jerome Swift
Chairman & CEO
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 19
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
I would say Yaron that obviously we update our statistics and views periodically. That's what we did this
quarter. So that reflects our best views of trends going forward that in essence we price product on and
book reserves on. So it is our best thinking from here.
Now we've always talked about it. Changes in incidence and/or recoveries is somewhat employment-
centric related. So as long as we don't have any big shocks into the system I would expect our estimates
here to hold. But as I said it's a dynamic world out there. And when things change we just have to
reevaluate our assumptions and we would change accordingly.
Operator
Well that is all the time we have for today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the
conference call back over to Susan Spivak for any closing remarks.
Susan Spivak Bernstein
Senior Investor Relations Officer
We appreciate all of you joining us as well as your questions. Please do not hesitate to reach out if you
have any follow-up. And if we didn't get to your question within the time period I am available so please
just give me a call. Thank you.
Operator
The conference call has now concluded. We thank you all for attending today's presentation. At this time
you may disconnect your lines. Thank you again everyone.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 20
THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC. FQ3 2019 EARNINGS CALL  NOV 05 2019
Copyright © 2019 by S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
These materials have been prepared solely for information purposes based upon information generally available to the public
and from sources believed to be reliable. No content (including index data ratings credit-related analyses and data research
model software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified reverse engineered
reproduced or distributed in any form by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without the prior written permission
of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively S&P Global). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or
unauthorized purposes. S&P Global and any third-party providers (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy
completeness timeliness or availability of the Content. S&P Global Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions regardless
of the cause for the results obtained from the use of the Content. THE CONTENT IS PROVIDED ON "AS IS" BASIS. S&P GLOBAL
PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE FREEDOM FROM BUGS SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS
THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE
OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Global Parties be liable to any party for any direct indirect incidental
exemplary compensatory punitive special or consequential damages costs expenses legal fees or losses (including without
limitation lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in connection with any use of the Content
even if advised of the possibility of such damages. S&P Global Market Intelligence's opinions quotes and credit-related and other
analyses are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact or recommendations to purchase
hold or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P Global Market
Intelligence may provide index data. Direct investment in an index is not possible. Exposure to an asset class represented by an
index is available through investable instruments based on that index. S&P Global Market Intelligence assumes no obligation to
update the Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the
skill judgment and experience of the user its management employees advisors and/or clients when making investment and other
business decisions. S&P Global Market Intelligence does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered
as such. S&P Global keeps certain activities of its divisions separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and
objectivity of their respective activities. As a result certain divisions of S&P Global may have information that is not available to
other S&P Global divisions. S&P Global has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P Global may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from
obligors. S&P Global reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P Global's public ratings and analyses are made
available on its Web sites www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge) and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription) and may be distributed through other means including via S&P Global publications and third-party redistributors.
Additional information about our ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
© 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Copyright © 2019 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 21