
 
American International Group Inc. 
NYSE:AIG
FQ4 2019 Earnings Call Transcripts
Thursday February 13 2020 2:00 PM GMT
S&P Global Market Intelligence Estimates
  -FQ4 2019- -FQ1 2020- -FY 2019- -FY 2020-
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS
EPS Normalized  1.01 1.03 1.98 1.28 4.61 4.59 (0.43 %) 5.02
Revenue  (mm) 11648.59 11815.00 1.43 11668.01 48875.89 49746.00 1.78 47575.16
Currency: USD
Consensus as of  Feb-13-2020 1:49 PM GMT
    - EPS NORMALIZED  -  
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE
FQ1 2019 1.06 1.58 49.06 %
FQ2 2019 1.16 1.43 23.28 %
FQ3 2019 1.00 0.56 (44.00 %)
FQ4 2019 1.01 1.03 1.98 %
1
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
Contents
Table of Contents
 
Call Participants .................................................................................. 3
Presentation .................................................................................. 4
Question and Answer .................................................................................. 17
2
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Call Participants
EXECUTIVES
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life &
Retirement
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of
General Insurance
Sabra Rose Purtill
Deputy CFO and Head of Treasury
Investor & Rating Agency Relations
Thomas George Gallagher
& Corporate Development
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities
Research Division
ANALYSTS
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Brian Robert Meredith
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
UBS Investment Bank Research
Research Division
Division
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Research Division
Erik James Bass
Autonomous Research LLP
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research
Division
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.
Research Division
Suneet Laxman L. Kamath
Citigroup Inc Research Division
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 3
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to AIG's Fourth Quarter 2019 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations. Please go
ahead.
Sabra Rose Purtill
Deputy CFO and Head of Treasury Investor & Rating Agency Relations & Corporate Development
Thank you. Good morning and thank you all for joining us. Today's call will cover AIG's fourth quarter
and year-end 2019 financial results announced earlier this morning. The news release financial results
presentation and financial supplement were posted on our website at www.aig.com and the 10-K for the
year will be filed next week.
Our speakers today include Brian Duperreault CEO; Peter Zaffino President and Chief Operating Officer
of AIG and CEO of General Insurance; Kevin Hogan CEO Life and Retirement; and Mark Lyons CFO.
Following their prepared remarks we will have time for Q&A.
I would also like to note that Peter and Mark will be hosting a fireside chat at the Bank of America
Insurance Conference today at 12:35 p.m. Eastern Time. The link for the webcast can be found under the
Investor Relations section of our website.
Before Brian begins please note that today's remarks may contain forward-looking statements including
comments relating to company performance strategic priorities business mix and market conditions.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and are based on management's
current expectations. Actual performance and events may differ materially. Factors that could cause
results to differ include the factors described in our first second and third quarter 2019 reports on Form
10-Q our 2018 annual report on Form 10-K and our other recent filings made with the SEC. AIG is not
under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements
whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Additionally some remarks today may refer to non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciliations of such
measures to the most comparable GAAP figures are included in our earnings release financial supplement
and presentation all of which are available on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Good morning and thank you for joining us to review our fourth quarter and full year 2019 results. For
the fourth quarter adjusted after-tax income was $919 million or $1.03 per common share. For full year
2019 adjusted after-tax income was $4.1 billion or $4.59 per common share. And return on common
equity and adjusted return on common equity were 5.3% and 8.3% respectively. These results reflect the
significant progress we made over the course of 2019 on the execution of our strategy to position AIG for
long-term sustainable and profitable growth.
Our focus on fundamentals and the foundational work that we've done since late 2017 is becoming
evident in our financial performance with our 2019 results reflecting broad-based improvement across all
segments.
I will highlight some of the important milestones we achieved this past year most notable being those in
General Insurance business.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 4
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
GI produced a full year 2019 combined ratio of 99.6 and an accident year combined ratio as adjusted of
96%. It's hard to say given all the issues at AIG over the last decade-plus but I honestly can't remember
the last time AIG had a full year underwriting profit. This inflection point is critical to achieve and reflects
the tremendous efforts by our team in General Insurance led by Peter to affect a turnaround on the scale
and time line never be seen -- never before seen in our industry.
Beginning in late 2017 the GI team acted with focused urgency to design a strategy to improve
underwriting fundamentals reposition our portfolio aggressively reduce limits judiciously deploy capital
or capacity and instill expense discipline.
Additionally the GI team designed an innovative reinsurance strategy to reduce risk and volatility and
preserve capital. The disciplined execution and the leadership they demonstrated in the global marketplace
throughout 2018 and 2019 not only dramatically reshaped our portfolio it stimulated the global market
cycle that I believe is improving and sustainable.
A great testament to this leadership is that throughout the last couple of years our clients distribution
and reinsurance partners as well as other stakeholders actively supported our action and placed their trust
and confidence in AIG as we continue to provide solutions for current and emerging risks.
While there is so much work to be done our strategy is clearly working and the team at General
Insurance will continue to make progress over the coming year.
In 2019 we also saw significant improvements in other areas of our business. Life and Retirement
delivered consistent solid results in the face of continued headwinds from sustained low interest rates and
tightening credit spreads. Due to Kevin and his team's proactive strategy to develop a diversified portfolio
and broad distribution network L&R ended the year with an adjusted return on common equity of 13.7%
ahead of our guidance.
Full year 2019 net investment income was $14.4 billion versus $12.7 billion in 2018 helped by a strong
alternative returns favorable equity markets and tightening spreads in the credit markets. We also made
significant progress in derisking our legacy portfolio with the announcement of an agreement to sell our
majority interest in Fortitude. The sale is subject to regulatory approvals that is currently expected to
close mid-year.
I'm very pleased that with all we accomplished in 2019 and our progress reflects the hard work and
commitment of our workforce across all of AIG. And we remain committed to achieving a 10% return on
adjusted common equity by the end of 2021.
Mark will provide more detail on our 2020 financial outlook.
As we look ahead to 2020 we continue to be laser-focused on the execution of our strategy to position
AIG as both a leading insurance franchise and a top-performing company AIG 200 which Peter is leading
and will discuss in more detail during his remarks will be a significant body of work this year and over the
next several years.
Like our approach in General Insurance back in 2017 the foundation work for AIG 200 started in earnest
in 2019 and will accelerate in 2020. We will continue to build out a world-class team of professionals with
significant transformation experience who will drive this work across our global organization. The team
is identifying issues and pain points and creating plans that will redefine how we do business and how we
create value for our stakeholders.
This is not about band-aids or temporary fixes to simply kick the can down the road. This work will
address underlying problems and position us for sustainable long-term profitability. AIG 200 is a bold
program with multiple work streams that require intense focus and disciplined execution. The sustainable
improvements AIG 200 will deliver require significant investment and will ultimately lead to reduced
expense base over time.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
When you consider the scope and complexity I've not seen a transformation this scale in my career much
like the GI turnaround we will have some surprises and perhaps setbacks along the way but we will look
-- we will work through them and in the end we will be vastly improved and a stronger company.
AIG 200 is a marathon not a sprint. While results will not be linear we will be fully transparent as this
work progresses. My confidence continues to grow that we are on the right path at AIG. I'm very proud of
what our colleagues have accomplished. The hard work dedication and commitment is delivering results
and we are energized by what 2020 holds for us.
With that I will turn the call over to Peter who will provide more information on fourth quarter and full
year financial results in General Insurance as well as AIG 200.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Thank you Brian and good morning everyone. Today I will review 2019 financial performance for
General Insurance update you on major reinsurance placements completed as part of the January
renewal season share observations regarding current market conditions and outline notable business unit
accomplishments in General Insurance. I will also provide an overview of AIG 200.
As Brian mentioned we are very pleased that in 2019 general insurance achieved an underwriting profit.
This was an important milestone for our team and reflects the significant work that was done in 2018
and 2019 to build a world-class leadership team establish a new comprehensive underwriting strategy
for General Insurance clearly outline a defined risk appetite for our distribution partners and clients and
complete critical foundational work to improve our portfolio while meaningfully reducing volatility through
underwriting actions and a comprehensive reinsurance strategy.
Our improved financial results provide clear evidence that our decisive actions are being accepted in the
marketplace. We are reestablishing AIG as a market leader which could have not happened without the
great support and strong relationships we have with our distribution partners and clients.
Turning to our financial results. The adjusted accident year combined ratio for the full year of 2019 was
96% a 370 basis point improvement year-over-year including a 240 basis point improvement in the loss
ratio and 130 basis point improvement in the expense ratio.
In North America the adjusted accident year loss ratio was 67.1% a 300 basis point improvement year-
over-year. The disciplined execution of our strategy resulted in a better quality more profitable portfolio
and North America also benefited from Validus and Glatfelter.
As noted on the third quarter call 2019 is a challenging year for Crop industry-wide. In the fourth quarter
as we did in the third quarter we increased loss estimates due to crop yield shortfalls resulting from poor
growing conditions and increased reserves due to the preventive planting claims from the impact of wet
weather conditions. As a result Crop negatively impacted North America's full year 2019 adjusted accident
year loss ratio by a 100 basis points.
North America Personal Insurance continued to perform as expected with an 80 basis point improvement
in the adjusted accident year loss ratio for the full year as business mix improved across the portfolio.
Private Client Group experienced lower severe attritional loss activity and I'm pleased with the progress
the new management team is making in that business.
Moving to International. The adjusted accident year loss ratio for the full year was 56.4% a 270 basis
point improvement year-over-year. This improvement was driven by strong results in Specialty and Talbot
and significant remediation efforts taking hold in Property all of which contributed to lower severe loss.
International Personal Insurance performance was in line with expectations with a 70 basis point
improvement in the adjusted accident year loss ratio for the full year driven by personal auto particularly
in Japan.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
From a top line perspective net premiums written and net premiums earned continued to reflect our
disciplined underwriting and reinsurance decisions.
Total net premiums written for the full year were $25.1 billion a 4% reduction year-over-year excluding
foreign exchange.
Net premiums earned for the full year were $26.4 billion a 3% reduction year-over-year excluding foreign
exchange.
Lastly during 2019 we instilled discipline and focus on expense management across General Insurance
reducing total operating expenses by over $500 million. The full year expense ratio was 34.4%.
Turning to CAT activity. Fourth quarter net CAT losses were $411 million compared to $826 million in the
prior year quarter. Typhoon Hagibis was the single largest driver of losses at $233 million of which $155
million was attributable to Validus Re net of the aggregate retrocessional program which responded in
line with expectations.
In International Personal and Commercial Insurance where AIG average market share in Japan is 6%
in the regions most impacted by 2019 CAT events our reinsurance program responded as expected and
limited net losses from Hagibis to $78 million before reinstatement premium.
Remaining CAT activity in the fourth quarter included approximately $150 million of net losses from events
in North America the largest of which were the Texas tornadoes and unrest in Chile.
For the full year 2019 total CAT losses were $1.3 billion net of reinsurance recoveries. This compares
to CAT losses of $2.9 billion net of reinsurance recoveries in 2018 and $4.2 billion net of reinsurance
recoveries in 2017.
We continue to refine and enhance our reinsurance purchasing strategy as our underwriting actions take
hold.
Overall we are pleased with the outcome of the January 1 renewals. While there are signs of firming in
the reinsurance market and significant relationships we established over the last 2.5 years enabled us to
achieve favorable renewals of our major treaties in line with our expectations. We continue to enhance
both the aggregate and occurrence structures for our global property CAT program which provides
significant protection against both severity and frequency of events in addition to providing extreme tail
protection against events in geographies where we have lower market share.
For the 2020 aggregate protection we improved the expiring CAT program by combining the international
and North American deductible into a single worldwide deductible and reducing each and every event
deductibles to be more tailored by geography and peril. These enhancements increased the relevance
of the aggregate protection particularly with respect to secondary and lesser model perils. We also
purchased 2 core occurrence towers. One tower covers North America commercial property and the other
covers all international property including Japan.
As with our expiring 2019 global CAT program the global aggregate protection also provides us with
significant additional limit with losses arising from a single large occurrence.
In addition we purchased a separate occurrence tower for our U.S. private client group bifurcating it
for North America commercial to have a dedicated tower as part of our initiative with Lloyd's to establish
Syndicate 2019 which is focused on our U.S. high net worth business. This was the only substantial new
program we entered into on January 1.
With respect to property per risk through a combination of the significant reduction in gross limits
deployed and enhanced reinsurance purchasing over the last 2 years we dramatically reduced our net
retention to any one property loss. As a result we renewed our 2020 cover with enhancements that
reduced the maximum attaching point from $50 million to $25 million and we reduced our purchases for
higher layers as our strategy to reduce gross limits continues to dramatically improve our risk profile.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
In the aggregate we were able to improve our overall CAT reinsurance program including terms and
conditions while reducing the overall cost by approximately 7% year-over-year. We will continue to refine
and enhance our reinsurance program as the year progresses and expect to finalize Syndicate 2019 in the
first half of the year.
Turning to the overall rate environment and market conditions. During the fourth quarter we continued
to see meaningful acceleration in rate increases and it was the strongest quarter of rate improvement
we've seen over the last decade. Overall rate improvement for General Insurance excluding Validus and
Glatfelter was in the low double digits in the fourth quarter and high single digits for the year. I'll give a
few examples that provide more color on the rate environment.
North America commercial rates increased in the low double digits to mid-teens in the fourth quarter
and high single low double digits for the full year. International commercial rates increased in the low
double digits in the fourth quarter and mid- to high single digits for the full year on average across all
geographies.
North America admitted excess casualty rate increases trend in the mid-40% range in the fourth quarter
and energy rates increased approximately 35%. International fourth quarter rate improvements were led
by the U.K. where D&O rate increased approached 40% and marine and energy rates increased in the
mid-20% range.
Now I'd like to provide additional insight into the progress we're making in certain lines of business and
highlight noteworthy accomplishments. I will start with Lexington which I've spoken about before and it's
a great case study on the disciplined execution of our strategy.
2019 represented the first full year of executing on our decision to be disciplined in underwriting excess
and surplus lines. We shifted our focus to true E&S business emphasized the wholesale channel and
began an effort to improve risk selection and bring better balance to the portfolio. The response from the
market has been remarkable and our distribution partners have been very supportive of this reposition.
Casualty and Property new business with our wholesale partners more than doubled in 2019.
In Lexington Casualty fourth quarter and full year 2019 submission volume increased 86% and 70%
respectively. We reduced limits on our most volatile accounts by 67% in the fourth quarter and 61% for
the full year while rates increased 28% in the fourth quarter and 21% for the full year.
In Lexington Property fourth quarter and full year 2019 submission volume increased 41% and 48%
respectively. We reduced total in-force limits by 19% in the fourth quarter and 52% for the full year while
rates increased 32% in the fourth quarter and 17% for the full year.
We also increased average deductible by over 50% in 2019. We expect to see greater underwriting
discipline and improving rate environment in the E&S market in the foreseeable future.
North America Retail Property is a great example of the bold actions we're executing on. This portfolio has
taken more time to reposition because of a number of long-term policies that were in force.
In 2019 we reduced total in-force gross limits by $40 billion or 17% in the fourth quarter and over -- and
by over $150 billion or 44% for the full year.
We increased average deductibles by 21% in the fourth quarter and 31% for the full year.
Rate increases were in excess of 40% in the fourth quarter for both the total portfolio and when excluding
the impact of long-term agreements.
For the full year total rate increases were 19% and increases excluding the impact of long-term
agreements were 25%. As you can see we have dramatically changed this portfolio. And in 2020 we
expect to see further improvement in derisking as long-term agreements roll off.
In North America financial lines commercial D&O rates improved nearly 35% in the fourth quarter
marking the second consecutive quarter of increases exceeding 30%. On a full year basis we achieved
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
rate increases that exceeded 25%. This improvement was led by public D&O where rate increases were
38% in the fourth quarter and 29% for the full year. We continue to manage our exposure to D&O trends
and reduce primary commercial D&O aggregate limits by 40% in the fourth quarter and over 35% for the
full year.
Additionally we reduced policies with limits greater than $10 million and lead layers by 50% in the fourth
quarter and over 40% for the full year.
With respect to international we're very pleased with the performance of our Specialty business led by
a significant improvement in our Energy portfolio. The improvement in full year adjusted accident year
combined ratio was as a result of limit reductions changes to underwriting guidelines and deductibles
rate actions and selective class exits.
Finally our global A&H business produced a strong underwriting profit in 2019. We plan to accelerate
investment in this growth business while maintaining focus on risk selection and portfolio optimization.
General Insurance entered 2020 with great momentum. We will continue to execute on our underwriting
and reinsurance strategies to further improve profitability.
Next I'd like to spend time on AIG 200 which is our global multiyear effort to focus on the long-term
strategic positioning of AIG and a top priority for us in 2020.
As Brian noted this work focuses on transformational change to our infrastructure and underwriting
operations as well as developing a new data architecture as we focus on delivering value through scale
and simplification.
In 2019 we engaged colleagues across AIG in a robust diligent exercise that provided important
perspective and insight into how we define who we are as a company; how we differentiate ourselves in
the global insurance marketplace; how we create value for clients policyholders distribution partners our
colleagues and other stakeholders.
We conducted a careful analysis and evaluation of the output from its initial phase of work guided
by the 4 core objectives for AIG 200: achieving underwriting excellence; modernizing our operating
infrastructure; enhancing user and customer experiences; and becoming a more unified company.
Based on this analysis we identified 10 core operational programs that we will begin to execute on in
2020. We expect these programs will require $1.3 billion of investment over the next 3 years and deliver
$1 billion of run rate benefits to GOE by the end of 2022.
We've been carefully planning execution road maps for each of these operational programs with a focus on
resource and investment prioritization as well as disciplined execution.
Let me provide a brief overview of the 10 operational programs. Three sit within General Insurance:
Building out a standard commercial underwriting platform enhancing digital workflow in our Japanese
business and improving capabilities in private client group.
The standard commercial underwriting platform will modernize our global underwriting capabilities by
simplifying and streamlining processes and tools to create a contemporary data architecture. This platform
will enable improved underwriting analysis and allow us to drive better risk management pricing and
portfolio decisions while improving user experience.
With respect to Japan we will transform this business into a next-generation digital insurance company
with the ability to offer anywhere anytime any device experience that our customers and agents expect.
To deliver on this digital-first approach we will modernize our underlying technology infrastructure.
In our Private Client Group business decision-making will improve primarily through modernizing our
legacy technology and moving to digitized workloads. As a result of this work PCG will be well positioned
to offer brokers agents and clients an improved user experience.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
The other operational programs will transform shared services IT finance procurement and real estate
across AIG.
With respect to shared services we will expand our existing capabilities on a global basis to create AIG
global operations a multifunctional fully integrated operating model with digitally enabled end-to-end
process and increased scope and scale.
Our goal for AIG global operations is to instill a strong culture of operational excellence and continuous
improvement that also unifies the company and delivers best-in-class capabilities.
In IT where we have 2 work streams we will transform the operating model to function itself and build
a modern scalable and secure technology foundation to improve operational stability and enable faster
business technology deployment.
The key components of this program focused on materially eliminating legacy technology debt simplifying
our business application portfolio and strategically moving to cloud services.
In finance where we also have 2 work streams we will transform the operating model of the function
itself and modernize our infrastructure through technology solutions and simplified finance and actuarial
processes while materially improving our analytics capabilities.
In procurement we are creating a highly efficient global procurement and sourcing organization to
leverage our purchasing power maximize value minimize risk and support continuous and sustained
profitable growth for AIG.
Lastly we're optimizing and consolidating AIG's real estate portfolio to ensure it is cost effective resilient
and reflective of our global footprint.
Each of these programs is complex and will require disciplined execution. In the end this work will
materially improve how we do business and strategically position AIG to become a top-performing
company.
We will be fully transparent about the execution of AIG 200 and will provide quarterly updates on our
progress.
Now I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Thank you Peter and good morning everyone. Today I will discuss our full year results and outlook for
2020 and then briefly comment on our results for the fourth quarter.
Life and Retirement recorded adjusted pretax income of $3.46 billion for the full year and delivered
adjusted return on attributed common equity at 13.7%. Adjusted pretax income increased by $268 million
from the prior year. Solid underlying results were further supported by capital markets conditions and
their effect on both assets and liabilities. Impacts from accretive equity market returns increased by $244
million including higher fee income lower deferred acquisition cost amortization and higher returns on
alternative investments.
Short-term positive impacts from lower interest rates and credit spreads increased by $154 million
including higher returns on fair value option securities and gains on calls.
Our earnings also benefited from higher assets due to new business growth. These positive impacts were
partially offset by a further impact from spread compression of approximately $112 million or 7 basis
points annually and investments to enhance our operating platforms.
As to our top line 2019 was a good example of our strategy to accelerate or moderate new business
depending on relative returns. With very favorable pricing conditions during the first quarter we deployed
significant capital in individual retirement and produced robust new business volume at attractive margins.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
As rates and spreads declined over the remaining 3 quarters we adjusted our pricing and reduced
individual annuity sales levels as our view of margins became less attractive.
At the same time we achieved record year for new group acquisitions and group retirement and continued
to grow international sales for our Life Insurance business and focused on consistent profitable growth in
institutional markets.
Looking ahead to full year 2020 we expect adjusted pretax income to be more in line with our 2018
results. These expectations assume equity market returns of 6.5% and 10-year treasury rates around
1.7%.
To give you an idea of market sensitivity of our adjusted earnings including impact of both assets
and liabilities a 1% decrease in equity market returns would decrease adjusted pretax income by
approximately $30 million to $40 million annually and there would be a corresponding increase in
earnings from a 1% increase in equity market returns.
A 10 basis points decrease in 10-year treasury rates would decrease earnings by approximately $5 million
to $15 million annually and there would be a corresponding increase in earnings from a 10 basis points
increase in treasury rates. It is important to note that these market sensitivity ranges are not exact or
linear since our earnings were also impacted by the timing and degree of interest rate movements as well
as credit spreads and other factors.
Based on our interest rate level assumptions our expectation for full year 2020 is for base investment
spreads across the whole portfolio to decline by approximately 8 to 16 basis points annually with the
middle of the range resulting in a headwind of approximately $200 million.
Based on our expectations for rates and spreads we expect negative net flows for group retirement and
individual retirement for the year with decreased levels of individual annuity sales particularly in fixed
annuities.
Finally from a statutory perspective we expect to continue to generate solid earnings and maintain strong
capitalization and broad operating entities.
Now I will briefly discuss our results for the fourth quarter. Life and Retirement reported adjusted pretax
income of $839 million for the quarter. Adjusted pretax income increased by $216 million from the prior
year quarter. Impacts from accretive equity market returns increased by $176 million and short-term
positive impacts from lower interest rates and credit spreads increased by $46 million. These positive
impacts were partially offset by spread compression and previously mentioned investments to enhance our
operating platforms.
For Individual Retirement premiums and deposits decreased primarily due to lower fixed annuity sales
reflecting low rates and reducing credit spreads. Lower sales resulted in decreased net flows for total
individual annuities while total assets under administration grew driven by strong equity market
performance and higher annuity net flows in the first half of the year.
For Group Retirement premiums and deposits increased by 10% from the prior year quarter driven by
strong new group acquisition results.
Net flows were below the prior year quarter due to higher group surrenders. Despite facing negative net
flows for a period of time we've continued to produce solid earnings for this business as assets under
administration have continued to grow.
For our Life Insurance business total premiums and deposits increased due to higher international sales.
Our U.S. life sales declined as we continued to deemphasize guaranteed universal life sales in the current
interest rate environment and indexed universal life sales remained under pressure.
Lastly our overall mortality returned to trend and was once again favorable making this 10 out of the last
12 quarters where mortality was either at or favorable to pricing assumptions.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
For institutional markets we have continued to grow our asset base and earnings and the business
continues to be well positioned to capitalize on available growth while remaining focused on achieving
targeted returns.
Deposits decreased due to robust pension risk transfer activity in the fourth quarter of last year.
Across our businesses we are continuing to invest as needed to prepare for the evolving regulatory and
accounting landscape and to leverage these ongoing investments to further improve our efficiency and
competitive position.
We are pleased with the comprehensive retirement reform provided by the passage of the Secure Act.
In addition to the expected outcome of increasing the availability of income solutions for participants in
defined contribution plans we believe that it'll ultimately enhance the overall education and awareness of
the need for protected lifetime income as part of a comprehensive diversified retirement plan.
For our Group Retirement business we are evaluating several unique lifetime income options. Other
benefits of the Secure Act include raising the age for required minimum distributions to 72 and eliminating
the age limit for contributions to IRAs all of which present opportunities for both our Group Retirement
and Individual Retirement businesses.
To close we remain committed to our ongoing strategy to leverage our broad product expertise and
distribution footprint to deploy capital to the most attractive opportunities which we believe positions us
well to help meet growing needs for protection retirement savings and lifetime income solutions.
Now I will turn it over to Mark.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Thank you Kevin and good morning all. AIG's adjusted after-tax earnings per share was $1.03 for the
fourth quarter compared to a negative $0.63 per share in the prior quarter.
AIG had adjusted pretax income of $1.2 billion and adjusted after-tax income of $919 million for the
fourth quarter. And for the full year adjusted after-tax earnings were approximately $4.1 billion or $4.59
per diluted share representing a $3.42 per share improvement over 2018.
Adjusted book value per share which excludes AOCI and DTA was $58.89 an increase of 2.2% from
third quarter and 7.2% relative to year-end 2018. Return on adjusted common equity or ROCE was an
annualized 7.3% for the quarter and 8.3% for the full year driven by General Insurance at 9% for the full
year and Life and Retirement at 13.7% for the full year.
An important driver of earnings and ROCE improvement in the fourth quarter was our net investment
income or NII which was $3.5 billion on an adjusted pretax income basis almost the same as the third
quarter of 2019 reflecting higher alternative investment income and prepayments and bond calls.
NII on an adjusted pretax income basis was up $649 million for the fourth quarter 2018 which was
negatively impacted by higher rates lower equity markets and negative returns on alternatives last year.
On a full year basis 2019 NII was nearly $14.4 billion on an adjusted pretax income basis well above our
original expectations and up $1.7 billion from 2018 due to strong alternative returns impact of lower rates
and credit spreads on fair value option bonds and equity markets offset in part by the impact of lower
reinvestment rates.
Legacy contributed $2.5 billion of NII in 2019.
I want to call your attention to additional investment income information on Page 46 of the financial
comparables which provides information on the drivers of NII for both GI and Life and Retirement. This
should help you refine your models including the impact of continued low rates on margins in L&R and
elsewhere.
I'll discuss our 2020 outlook later in my remarks.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Turning to General Insurance. The segment produced an underwriting profit with the calendar quarter
combined ratio of 99.8% and current accident quarter excluding CAT combined ratio of 95.8%. The
calendar quarter underwriting income was $12 million an increase of nearly $1.1 billion from the
fourth quarter of 2018 with North America contributing $852 million of improvement and international
operations contributing $231 million of improvement. Also both commercial and personal lines including
their exiting quarter underwriting margins within the fourth quarter versus the prior year quarter.
Moreover each reportable segment also saw improvement for the full accident year 2019 over 2018 both
in North America and international commercial lines and personal lines.
The full 2019 accident year combined ratio improved 370 basis points relative to 2018. And as Peter
mentioned with a 240 basis point improvement in the loss ratio a 140 basis point reduction in the GOE
ratio partially offset by a marginal 10 basis point increase in acquisition ratio.
Additionally as Peter referenced Crop results for the year negatively impacted the full global 2019
accident year by a half loss ratio for it at a global level.
It's also important to note that this improvement in the loss ratio represents the benefits from all the
underwritten actions taken in 2018 and 2019 and 2020 and beyond should begin to see additional
improvements as finer point adjustments filter through our financial results.
The net CAT ratio for the fourth quarter was 6.5% versus 11.3% in fourth quarter 2018 despite a high
level of gross CATs in both quarters as the combination of gross line reunderwriting together with the
improved reinsurance program continues to reduce the General Insurance's net CAT ratio.
Both quarters have losses from California wildfires and Japanese typhoons but our aggregate reinsurance
program reduced our net exposure consistent with our commentary on the third quarter call.
Turning to prior year development or PYD. As in prior quarters we'd like to unpack that for you. The
reported $153 million of favorable development includes $58 million of favorable amortization from the
ADC deferred gains or adverse development coverage deferred gains resulting in $95 million of favorable
development excluding that influence which is on a post-ADC recoverable basis.
On a pre-ADC basis we had $118 million of favorable development with 2017 CAT releases and wildfire
subrogation producing approximately $290 million of favorable development. Global Specialty providing
$70 million of favorable development $60 million of favorable development in international personal lines
$5 million of favorable development in U.S. primary casualty lines which include general liability and
workers compensation and approximately $13 million from various other units.
On the other side we had unfavorable pre-ADC development of approximately $320 million stemming
from our U.S. financial lines book. This unfavorable development emanates primarily from our private not-
for-profit D&O book which represents about $130 million unfavorable and the mergers and acquisitions
book which represented roughly $90 million of unfavorable.
Other areas largely represented fine-tuning. Hospitality had $39 million unfavorable; public primary and
excess D&O to roughly $35 million unfavorable; $16 million in cyber; and $7 million unfavorable was in
EPLI. This represented roughly a $210 million unfavorable on a post-ADC basis which indicates that the
strengthening was mostly centered in accident years 2016 through 2018.
On a full year pre-ADC basis the company enjoyed $341 million of favorable development led by workers'
compensation personal lines global specialty and commercial short-tail line with unfavorable development
on the annual basis emanating from financial lines as just discussed and some in excess casualty.
On an accident year and post-ADC basis and as shown in the financial supplement accident year 2018
increased by 1 loss ratio point over the year the 2017 accident year decreased by 0.6 loss ratio points
and accident year 2016 remained flat. We reviewed the roll-forward potential and the impact of accident
year 2019 was not deemed material since some segments somewhat improved and others somewhat
worse.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Peter discussed the rate increases being achieved throughout General Insurance. And although they bode
well towards 2020 the uptick in U.S. social inflation together with an increasing proportion of litigated
claims and increased securities class action filings may cause slower recognition of any arithmetically
implied margin expansion.
The book has undergone massive reunderwriting so our historical experience is only moderately useful
projecting forward. Given the changes in the external economic and legal climate coupled with AIG's
material underwriting changes it's prudent and best practices that let the loss experience emerge before
any accident year 2020 adjustments are contemplated.
Turning to the Life and Retirement segment. Adjusted pretax income is nearly $3.5 billion. As Kevin noted
an increase of $268 million from 2018. For the quarter adjusted pretax income was $839 million up $260
million over fourth quarter 2018 helped along in part by higher equity market.
Premiums and deposits decreased 3.6% on a full year basis as we continued to be prudent on product
pricing in this environment.
Regarding spread compression individual retirement variable and indexed annuities combined base net
investment spreads fell off 28 basis points for 2019 versus last year whereas individual retirement fixed
annuities base investment spreads fell off just 9 basis points for 2019 versus 2018.
On the Group Retirement side base net investment spreads actually increased 4 basis points versus last
year.
Regarding net flows on a full year basis individual retirement across all products combined had negative
net flows although these were cut in half relative to last year. Fixed annuities materially reduced their net
outflow variable annuities were similar to last year whereas indexed annuities continue to exhibit material
strength with positive net flows of $4.7 billion for the year. And retail mutual funds had a similar level of
net negative outlook. As respect to surrender rates for the year fixed annuities were 90 basis points lower
than 2018 whereas the composite of variable and fixed annuity rates were effectively flat.
On the Group Retirement side net flows were negative but marginally better than 2018 and the
surrender rate decreased 60 basis points on a full year basis.
Additionally as a measure of future earnings power assets under administration grew 14.5% during 2019
with similar growth experienced by both Individual and Group Retirement.
The Life segment grew Life Insurance in force by nearly 10% during the year aided by the growth in
International Life. Institutional markets had $45 million more in adjusted pretax income with premiums
and deposits double in 2019 and the pension risk transfer space with guaranteed investment contracts
down in volume.
As Kevin discussed the combination of reinvestment yields including low rates and tight spreads
and minimum crediting rate put pressure on 2019 earnings which were offset in part by very strong
alternative returns including a large gain on a private equity investment as previously discussed.
Turning to Legacy. Adjusted pretax income was $177 million compared with the fourth quarter 2018
loss which has reflected a $105 million charge from loss recognition on accident and health cancer and
disability blocks.
Legacy NII on a full year basis with nearly $2.5 billion slightly higher than last year and the annualized
return on attributed common equity was 5.4% for the year driven by $501 million of adjusted pretax
income.
As a reminder Legacy is largely driven by Fortitude Re and in November we announced the agreement to
sell 76.6% interest in Fortitude which we expect to close mid-year subject to regulatory approval.
With respect to tax the final effective tax rate was 22.1% for 2019 applicable to adjusted pretax income
and 19.3% for the quarter inclusive of discrete items which also includes a 9-month $14 million catch-up
adjustment to reflect the lower full year tax rate.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
As you know effective tax rates are updated each quarter using actual year-to-date results and the
remaining quarters are forecasted and integrated. And as always the tax rate is heavily influenced each
quarter by the geographic distribution of income by tax jurisdiction.
We did not repurchase any shares in the fourth quarter so our Board authorization remains at $2 billion.
Moving to leverage. As compared to year-end 2018 our total debt and preferred to total capital ratio
improved 310 basis points to 26.2% at the year-end 2019.
Adjusted book value per share increased 7.2% from year-end 2018 and GAAP book value per share
increased 15.2% since the year-end 2018 benefiting from approximately $6.4 billion of AOCI gains during
the year.
Now I'd like to pivot providing some information on our outlook for 2020 all on an adjusted pretax income
basis.
First however recall that 2019 had some very strong components to profit that aren't expected to recur
in 2020. Net investment income or NII is a key example. The excess returns of our alternative portfolio
together with credit spread compression not expected to repeat in 2020 together lead to where we built
NII forecast for 2020. NII is expected to be nearly $13.6 billion on a full year basis which represents an
approximate 4.3% yield on investable assets with an associated range of plus or minus 25 basis points.
The 2020 NII by segment from a point estimate perspective is expected to be $3.2 billion for General
Insurance $8.2 billion for Life and Retirement and $2.2 billion for Legacy on the basis that Fortitude stays
with AIG all year about the 100% level.
General Insurance is expected to achieve $25 billion for 2020 net written premiums virtually flat with
2019 and therefore a similar 2020 net earned premium outlook. However given what Peter discussed
about the evolving structure of Syndicate 2019 our forecast for net written premium may decrease as this
structure is finalized. We will provide an update on Syndicate 2019 on our first quarter call.
Moving on to underwriting profitability. The accident year combined ratio for 2020 is expected to be in the
range of 93.8% to 94.8% ex-CAT.
Life and Retirement is expected to have adjusted pretax income between $3.1 billion and $3.3 billion for
2020 which is a level comparable to 2018.
Legacy on a full year basis is expected to provide APTI of roughly $100 million to $120 million.
Other operations -- well beginning with the first quarter of 2020 we're going to provide more clarity and
insight into other operations. However in total we expect that the adjusted pretax income for 2020 to
be between $60 million to $75 million lower than 2019 meaning a bigger negative. This represents an
amalgam of consolidation and elimination entry -- interest expense on direct AIG debt as well as interest
on debt within consolidated investment entities Blackboard and both GOE and other income that in some
cases grossed up for internal service charge backs.
We've now given you the aggregate expected financial impact but this highlights the need to provide
increased visibility into the components and we will do so.
As Peter noted with respect to AIG 200 we expect to invest $1.3 billion over the next 3 years and to
realize a $1 billion of run rate GOE savings as we exit 2022.
The anticipated impact to adjusted pretax income in 2020 is a $150 million APTI gain with roughly 75% of
this to be reflected in General Insurance with the balance evenly split between Life and Retirement and
other operations.
Run rate GOE savings are expected to be on a cumulative basis $300 million $600 million and $1 billion
in 2022 through -- 2020 through 2022. We currently estimate roughly $400 million of the $1.3 billion cost
to achieve being capitalized as the assets are put into service.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
We anticipate establishing a restructuring charge in the first quarter and we'll provide more details at that
time.
Regarding capital management and associated liquidity our options are primarily directed towards debt
reduction and expected IRS payment of approximately $1.7 billion in the first half of 2020 AIG 200's $1.3
billion of investment beginning in 2020 and other possibilities to invest back into our core businesses.
As for share repurchases we continually evaluate that option but we'll wait until the Fortitude sale close
to review more fully.
Lastly we expect to make additional progress reducing our year-end debt and preferred to total capital
ratio lower than the current 26.2%.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Brian.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Thanks Mark. We had a lot of content. So we'll go to questions but we'll stay on past 9:00 to take as
many questions as we can. Can we start then operator?
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Question and Answer
Operator
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Meyer Shields at KBW.
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Research Division
Two really quick questions. First in the accident year loss ratio excluding profit are there any other
adjustments to the full year numbers -- to full year 2019 numbers?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
From a full year aggregate it's nothing material.
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Research Division
Okay. Perfect. And when we look forward I'm wondering how the planned reduction in earnings volatility
aligns with what we see as much better pricing in international markets in particular as far as all this
goes do we expect more exposure on a year-over-year basis to catastrophe losses or to retro cover?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
So it's really a question around retro's increasing costs. I guess Peter can answer that question. I think
we've gone to our market with our reinsurance program. You heard Peter describe it. So for 2020 I think
we've established what the cost will be for us. But Peter do you want to answer that?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes. So thanks Meyer. Yes the retro costs have increased and I think it will be a little bit different
than last year because believe as we enter into the April 1 and June 1 renewal dates for Japan and
Tokyo respectively we're going to see meaningful rate increases on same structures. And so while the
reinsurance market has seen increased retro cost I believe that the reinsurance cost will be able to bear
that cost in terms of how we are going to reinsure different portfolios. And we are not taking a lot more
volatility in the portfolio. In other words because of the retro costs we're now looking to take a lot more
net but consistent with our overall strategy on volatility and risk retention.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
And might talk about Validus hold just a second.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
So in terms of Validus yes that's what I referring more on April 1 and June 1 that they ought to be able
to position themselves in the marketplace. But we're not looking to grow and take on more CAT exposure
on a net basis throughout 2020.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Next question.
Operator
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
I'll move next to Jimmy Bhullar at JPMorgan.
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
I had one question on guidance and then also on Life and Retirement. On guidance you gave a lot of
details on expectations for the year on margins and stuff. I don't know if you mentioned anything on the
tax rate and also on sort of what type of a capital do you expect for the year if there is such a thing as a
normal CAT load?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Mark?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Yes thanks for the question. No we gave guidance on an adjusted pretax basis at this point. And...
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
My point is what do you expect the tax rate to be if you overall because it was very low in the fourth
quarter and relatively low in 2019 as a whole?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Yes. Actually the guidance around that is pretty similar to what we said last year so 22% 23%.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
And the CAT question?
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
Okay. And anything on...
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
CAT load?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Oh well CAT load. I'm really glad you asked this question because you may recall that I think in the
middle of the year we said we're going to start looking at this like every other company which is looking
at return periods and looking at it on OEP and an AEP basis. 10-K that will be coming out we'll provide
that information for you. But AALs that we're getting away from. We don't manage the company that way.
We manage it on the return-period basis. And I'll leave with that.
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
Okay. And then on the Life and Retirement business your spread declined more than I think the
guidance you had given earlier this year around 2 to 3 basis points a quarter in both Individual and Group
Retirement. So is it this rate that's driving this or is it competition or flexibility to cut granting rates? Can
you just comment on what's really driving the deterioration in spreads?
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 18
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Yes sure Jimmy thanks. There is a little bit of noise in the spread movement third quarter to fourth
quarter and year-over-year. And frankly it's relative to just some of the specifics of the market conditions
through the quarters. And plus the year-over-year trend is really I think much more relevant. And so
based on the environment that we're expecting we're sort of looking on an annualized basis at an 8 to
16 basis points compression which is a little bit of an increase based on what we had before. But on the
entire year basis our compression in 2019 was 7 basis points collectively. So I think that we're seeing
a little bit of compression. It's largely within what we expected certainly market conditions are very
challenging right now. There was a little bit of noise third quarter to fourth quarter but no impact on
trend as far as we're concerned. And maybe most importantly we are still seeing very attractive spreads
available.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Thanks. Tom our next question I should say.
Operator
We'll go next to Tom Gallagher at Evercore.
Thomas George Gallagher
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Just first question on the expense side. The restructuring charge that's coming in 1Q Mark that you
referenced is that likely to be most of the or a sizable portion of the $1.3 billion investment? Are you
going to take that all upfront? Or is that going to be far more modest? And how should we think about
charge? Will charges be below the line or included in operating as you record some of these?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Well yes good questions. Some of that will be giving you chapter and verse when we go on our first
quarter call as we alluded to. But you're going to have a mixture so what's above and below the line.
You've -- then we'll give you all that detail. And as far as whether it's the major part of the restructuring of
the total cost of investment it's not going to be the major but we'll give you the details on that again in
1Q.
Thomas George Gallagher
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Okay. And then just a follow-up -- sorry just a follow-up on Kevin for investment spreads. I just want
to be clear I know what the message is here. I heard the year-over-year comment on spreads. Do you
expect spreads to be down versus the 4Q level because it was kind of a sharp drop in 4Q? Would you
expect them to be more stable versus 4Q or still compressed from 4Q levels?
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Well I think that obviously it does depend on what the specifics of each quarter-to-quarter movements
are. But we would expect spreads comparable to -- largely comparable to where we were at the 4Q
depending upon ultimately the market conditions. There was a little bit of movement sort of the third Q or
the fourth Q as a result of certain characteristics of the investments Tom.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Next question please.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 19
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Operator
We'll go next to Yaron Kinar at Goldman Sachs.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
My first question goes to the 10% adjusted ROCE target by the end of 2021. Does that incorporate sale of
the majority stake in Fortitude Re and maybe the impact on from CECL? And if it does maybe you could
help us think about the impact from the sale of Fortitude Re?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
So let me take it and then Mark can go within. So when I gave you that target some time ago we had
not contemplated the sale of Fortitude. And so we believe that then and now we have a Fortitude sale
impending expected it would close midyear that helps that number but that number we believe was
achievable in either case.
But I'll let Mark talk about the rest of the stuff CECL and stuff.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Yes thank you. First off yes it contemplates both. So it contemplates the CECL which will have a
shareholders equity debt coming into the year for regulations. We had guided you last quarter that
that was about $645 million. You'll see in our K that comes out the actual number but it's not materially
different from that. So yes to that.
And as far as Fortitude it's all in. So the difficulty is that it's 2 things. One we estimate closing. We don't
know exactly when closing is. And we've been around long enough to know we had kept all those down.
And secondly the interest rate environment will be fairly material to the ultimate impact of what it'll do to
book equity. So it's fairly hard to predict. But yes we're anticipating that's all in.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
And then my second question is around the GOE kind of cost-saving targets you would lay out. So are
those gross or net?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Mark?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
What's your definition of that gross -- gross or net?
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
Well I guess do you expect $600 million...
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
So I guess you have to reinsure with me?
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 20
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
I'm sorry.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Okay. Let me just -- so just for clarifying. So the -- if I go back to the comments from 2020 to 2021 it
was $300 million $600 million $1 billion pure GOE. But that -- if you mean tax that's goes to tax.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
It sounds like you would expect a certain portion of that to be reinvested back in the business?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Well that's part of our conversation back up in first quarter when we laid things out. But Peter talked
about the $1.3 billion of investment and that's going to be reflected. There's cash aspects. There's putting
capitalized assets into service and the timing of those when they're ready and you've to appreciate for that
type. There's a lot of moving parts. So I don't mean to be vague but there's a lot of moving parts and
we'll give that to you in the first quarter.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Next question please.
Operator
We'll go next to Elyse Greenspan at Wells Fargo.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
My first question you guys saw -- still seeing your premiums drop in the fourth quarter and it sounds
like you expect them to be flat in 2020 yet you're getting a real good amount of rate and it sounds like
there wasn't that much material changes to your reinsurance purchases for 2020. So I'm just trying to
understand can you give us a sense of what businesses you're still shedding? And how business mix is
offsetting some of the impact of rate as we still look at kind of a flat premiums written in 2020?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. We'll start Peter and I have a comment.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes. Thanks Elyse. I mean I think it's going to be consistent but just a little bit more tailing off in 2020
when you compare it to 2019 which is going to be gross underwriting actions that continue. I talked a
little bit about long-term agreements rolling off. It's a big part of our reunderwriting in the first quarter for
Property. We're still working through the Lexington. And even those statistics are daunting for us in terms
of the improvement of the portfolio and the repositioning that still is going to be work that's going to be
done. And then also the reinsurance think about the Casualty quota share which was something that we
felt really mitigated volatility. We entered into that in 2019 but that continues in 2020. So some of the
discrete reinsurance purchases will have an impact on net premiums written not to the same extent it did
in '19 but certainly we'll carry over into '20.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay?
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 21
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
And then my second question Mark...
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Let me add -- Elyse let me just add something here. When we started this turnaround what did we face.
We had businesses that were -- had limits way too high. We weren't getting base. We had concentrations
of risk where you just couldn't keep that concentration and we're taking it all net and we were getting
price paid for anything. So you start -- we've cut volatility out of this company by taking the limits
down that takes premium out of the pipe. We raised retentions that takes premium out of the pipe. Yes
we've raised rates we've also bought reinsurance takes premiums out of pipe. So we have not been
concentrating on the top line because we had to concentrate on the bottom line.
That's -- so once you get a base that you believe is sustainable then you grow it. And so we want to grow
the business but we're going to concentrate on making sure this portfolio is rock solid. That's the #1
priority.
Okay. Okay. Elyse you got another question?
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
Yes. And then my second question Mark in your guidance commentary you pointed to an accident year
combined ratio of 93.8% to 94.8% in General Insurance. I recognize some of the expense figures you
gave are exit run rates of $300 million for 2020 but if I kind of do some rough math it seems like of
that improvement that you'll see over the next 12 months about half should come from the underlying
loss ratio and half from the expense ratio. Does that feel about right given the expense program and the
guidance you laid out?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Well I'd say probably skewed more and more to the loss ratio. And as we go from '20 to '21 you see --
probably see that flip some degree of improvement.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Next question please.
Operator
We'll go next to Erik Bass of Autonomous Research.
Erik James Bass
Autonomous Research LLP
And I appreciate the additional guidance details. Just wanted to ask a bigger picture question. If you could
help us kind of bridge the gap to the 10% ROE by year-end '21 or it seems relative to 2019 Life and
Retirement facing a little bit of pressure. So can you help us just think about the contribution from GI
margin expansion in AIG 200 to get there? And are there any other major moving pieces to consider?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Go ahead Mark.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 22
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Well to get -- I guess a couple of things you guys to think about is I think as I tried to lay out the 8.3%
return in calendar 2019 had some extraordinary gains in it. So if you normalize for that and things of that
nature it's not quite the same. I also think in the prior quarter I've mentioned that get to 10% is not
linear that we would expect more in the back half than the first half of that. We have great expansion in
GI on expected underwriting gain. And although there is a stronger marketplace environment it's also
a radically modified portfolio. So by the time we're in 2021 we'll have a little more back of the window
view of what 2020 looks like. And if we were lucky enough that the environment continues that's a great
tailwind to help us out.
AIG 200 is going to also help along the lines we just mentioned. So there should be incrementally better
contributions from AIG 200 each year through 2021.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
We expect L&R to be stable in this environment. Maybe the ROEs have come down a little bit as we
discussed. But we'd expect L&R to be stable and it wheels around the GI improvements it's loss ratio now.
With AIG 200 kicks in it will be expense ratios coming later.
Erik James Bass
Autonomous Research LLP
Got it. And then just one follow-up on Life and Retirement guidance. I think you talked about $200 million
or so drag from spread compression but based on the sensitivity Kevin that you gave on the equity
markets I would think you would see some of that or much of it offset given the gains we saw last year.
So are there other pieces to factor in that would kind of get you to the lower earnings next year?
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Well Erik as I pointed out I mean our assumptions are for -- from the starting point of the year 6.5%
on the equity markets. And that the 10-year will be around 1.7% and the sensitivities that we gave were
relative to those assumptions.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Next question.
Operator
We'll move next to Brian Meredith at UBS.
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Yes just 2 for me here quickly. On the GOE is some of that -- on the AIG 200 is some of that going to
come from loss adjustment expenses? And then maybe you can frame it a little bit how much kind of
Corporate versus General Insurance?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Peter do you want to take that?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes. So no we do not contemplate an AIG 200 the loss adjustment expense Brian. And then in terms
of the way we framed out the program. I think if I understand your question correctly Mark put it into
his prepared remarks which is basically 3 quarters of it will come through General Insurance over the
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 23
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
program and then the other quarter will come into Life Retirement and Corporate. And again in terms of
the sequencing of that I think it will be fairly consistent throughout the 3 years.
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Got you. It's helpful. And then my second one just a little clarification and sorry to kind of go on this one.
But if I look at your ROE in 2022 when we come out here we know that Legacy is going to cause call it
over $3 billion hit to your equity. When we take a look at that return on equity will if I add back that $3.5
billion FF equity will we still have a double-digit return on equity in 2022?
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
I'll take that one. I have 2 things that are kind of countervailing -- actually 3 things come to mind. First
off when we originally said the 10% we had a completely different investment environment investment
outlook. So from that point of view having the Fortitude sale the impact on that is very helpful to offset
some of the investment income outlook differences. And the other thing is the $3 billion number that's
approximately that you talked about that's the impact on -- the impact from consolidation as opposed to
the impact from sale. And impact from sale is subfunction of whatever the market conditions are going to
be on the day of closing. So equity part...
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Come stay too...
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Hard to predict. I know it's complicated. Hopefully that helps.
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
That's good.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Let's take maybe one more question.
Operator
I will take that question from Suneet Kamath from Citi.
Suneet Laxman L. Kamath
Citigroup Inc Research Division
Just a follow-up on Brian's question on the equity. As we think about kind of the half to the 10% is there
a capital return or share buyback expectation that's built into that guidance? I know you talked about
delevering but just want to get a sense of what we should think about in terms of getting to that 10%?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Well we're both looking at each other. Mark and I. And I'd say look we'd expect that as we manage our
capital we told you what our priorities are for this year. We're going to look at -- once we do close the
Fortitude we will relook at share buybacks which just probably move to second half of the year. It's still a
management tool. We have an authorization. So it's certainly possible.
Suneet Laxman L. Kamath
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 24
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Citigroup Inc Research Division
And then my follow-up is just on the first quarter call you mentioned a couple of times we're going to get
some more detail. Can you just maybe give us a sense of what you're planning on disclosing in terms of
AIG 200 on the first quarter call just the pieces?
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Mark you want to go back over that? Back and forth.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes I think what we're going to try to do in the first quarter is just give you a little bit more clarity on
the sequencing. And so while we have 10 initiatives and they'll largely be launched in the first quarter
there will be sequencing in terms of where we start. And giving you a little bit more insight as to how
that program progresses. And then I think that will tie to where Mark said before which is what type of
expense needs to be deployed with that sequencing to match expenditures and getting after this launch.
And so I think we'll be able to give you a little more clarity as to what you should expect on each of the
programs and what it looks like for the rest of 2020.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
And I'll just augment Peter's comments to probably what you're inferring is someone else had asked a
lot more clarity on perhaps the timing of capital being put in service you capitalize things being put in
service but clearly above and below the line aspect. So that all will be laid out.
Brian Charles Duperreault
Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Thank you very much. Let me appreciate your staying on a little longer and all the intention. I just
want to make one last comment and that is that -- as I said at the beginning of the call I'm really pleased
that we delivered on our 2019 commitments and we ended the year strong with great for the support
we received from the industry partners and our clients. And we're really optimistic about what the future
holds for AIG. But last and certainly not least I want to thank our AIG colleagues across the globe. The
resiliency they've shown over the last couple of years is tremendous and I'm proud to lead a group of
such talent professionals who continue to go above and beyond to make AIG a better stronger company.
So thank you all and have a great day.
Operator
And that does conclude today's conference. Again thank you for your participation.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 25
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  FEB 13 2020
Copyright © 2020 by S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
These materials have been prepared solely for information purposes based upon information generally available to the public
and from sources believed to be reliable. No content (including index data ratings credit-related analyses and data research
model software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified reverse engineered
reproduced or distributed in any form by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without the prior written permission
of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively S&P Global). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or
unauthorized purposes. S&P Global and any third-party providers (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy
completeness timeliness or availability of the Content. S&P Global Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions regardless
of the cause for the results obtained from the use of the Content. THE CONTENT IS PROVIDED ON "AS IS" BASIS. S&P GLOBAL
PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE FREEDOM FROM BUGS SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS
THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE
OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Global Parties be liable to any party for any direct indirect incidental
exemplary compensatory punitive special or consequential damages costs expenses legal fees or losses (including without
limitation lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in connection with any use of the Content
even if advised of the possibility of such damages. S&P Global Market Intelligence's opinions quotes and credit-related and other
analyses are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact or recommendations to purchase
hold or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P Global Market
Intelligence may provide index data. Direct investment in an index is not possible. Exposure to an asset class represented by an
index is available through investable instruments based on that index. S&P Global Market Intelligence assumes no obligation to
update the Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the
skill judgment and experience of the user its management employees advisors and/or clients when making investment and other
business decisions. S&P Global Market Intelligence does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered
as such. S&P Global keeps certain activities of its divisions separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and
objectivity of their respective activities. As a result certain divisions of S&P Global may have information that is not available to
other S&P Global divisions. S&P Global has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P Global may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from
obligors. S&P Global reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P Global's public ratings and analyses are made
available on its Web sites www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge) and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription) and may be distributed through other means including via S&P Global publications and third-party redistributors.
Additional information about our ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
© 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 26