
 
The Travelers Companies Inc. NYSE:TRV
FQ4 2019 Earnings Call Transcripts
Thursday January 23 2020 2:00 PM GMT
S&P Global Market Intelligence Estimates
  -FQ4 2019- -FQ1 2020- -FY 2019- -FY 2020-
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS
EPS Normalized  3.27 3.32 1.53 2.86 9.59 9.60 0.10 10.65
Revenue  (mm) 7259.40 7250.00 (0.13 %) 7218.20 28388.97 28272.00 (0.41 %) 30478.00
Currency: USD
Consensus as of  Jan-23-2020 1:36 PM GMT
    - EPS NORMALIZED  -  
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE
FQ1 2019 2.73 2.83 3.66 %
FQ2 2019 2.30 2.02 (12.17 %)
FQ3 2019 2.35 1.43 (39.15 %)
FQ4 2019 3.27 3.32 1.53 %
1
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
Contents
Table of Contents
 
Call Participants .................................................................................. 3
Presentation .................................................................................. 4
Question and Answer .................................................................................. 12
2
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Call Participants
EXECUTIVES
Abbe F. Goldstein
Senior Vice President of Investor
Relations
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Gregory Cheshire Toczydlowski
Executive VP & President of
Business Insurance
Lawrence David Greenberg
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Michael Frederick Klein Research Division
Executive VP & President of
Personal Insurance
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.
Thomas M. Kunkel Research Division
Executive VP and President of
Bond & Specialty Insurance
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
ANALYSTS
Michael Wayne Phillips
Amit Kumar Morgan Stanley Research Division
The Buckingham Research Group
Incorporated
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research
Division
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities
Research Division
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research
Division
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research
Division
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 3
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Presentation
Operator
Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the fourth quarter results teleconference for Travelers.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded on January 23 2020.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Abbe Goldstein Senior Vice President of
Investor Relations. Ms. Goldstein you may begin.
Abbe F. Goldstein
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you. Good morning and welcome to Travelers' discussion of our fourth quarter 2019 results.
Hopefully all of you have seen our press release financial supplement and webcast presentation released
earlier this morning. All of these materials can be found on our website at travelers.com under the
Investors section.
Speaking today will be Alan Schnitzer Chairman and CEO; Dan Frey Chief Financial Officer; and our 3
segment Presidents: Greg Toczydlowski of Business Insurance; Tom Kunkel of Bond & Specialty Insurance;
and Michael Klein of Personal Insurance. They will discuss the financial results of our business and the
current market environment. They will refer to the webcast earnings presentation as they go through
prepared remarks and then we will take your questions.
Before I turn the call over to Alan I would like to draw your attention to the explanatory note included at
the end of the earnings presentation. Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements. The
company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and is not
a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied
in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors. These factors are described under forward-
looking statements in our earnings press release and in our most recent 10-Q and 10-K filed with the SEC.
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Also in our remarks or responses to questions we may mention some non-GAAP financial measures.
Reconciliations are included in our recent earnings press release financial supplement and other materials
available in the Investors section on our website.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Alan Schnitzer.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Thank you Abbe. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning we reported record quarterly core income per diluted share of $3.32. Core return on equity
was 14.8%. As you've heard us say before the primary measure we use to manage our business is core
return on equity over time and any strategy to deliver industry-leading returns requires a strategy to
grow also over time.
For the full year 2019 we are very pleased that the continued successful execution of our strategy to grow
the top line at attractive returns resulted in record net written premiums of more than $29 billion.
Looking back over the last 3 years our cumulative top line growth and its impact on our results are
significant. Earned premiums were more than $3.5 billion higher in 2019 compared to 2016 representing
a compound annual growth rate of nearly 5%. That volume has made a meaningful contribution to
underwriting income. We have a very high-quality book of business and we're pleased that retentions
have remained high across the board in recent years.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 4
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Premium growth in 2019 and over the past 3 years has been driven by higher pricing with both pure rate
and exposure growth contributing. The new business we've added has been in products industries and
geographies that we know well. So we're growing with confidence.
Improvements in productivity and efficiency complement the benefit of volume. This quarter our
expense ratio improved to 29.1% bringing our full year expense ratio to 29.6%. That marks a steady
and substantial improvement over the past 3 years from an expense ratio which prior to that had
averaged around 32%. This was driven by our efforts to leverage technology investments and workflow
enhancements. Importantly at the same time we also continue to make strategic investments in our
business grow our investment portfolio and return substantial excess capital to our shareholders.
Achieving further productivity and efficiency gains continues to be a strategic priority for us. As
you've heard us say improved operating leverage gives us the flexibility to invest further in our
strategic priorities let the benefit fall to the bottom line and/or be more competitive on pricing without
compromising our return objectives.
Over the course of this past year our results were also impacted by headwinds from a challenging tort
environment. Greg will comment on the impact in the current quarter but I'll note that we continue to
believe that social inflation is an environmental issue driven primarily by a more aggressive plaintiffs' bar.
For the full year core income exceeded $2.5 billion generating core return on equity of 10.9%.
Considering the challenging tort environment and persistent low interest rates that level of profit and
returns speaks to the strength and resilience of our diversified business and our investment expertise.
Our results together with our strong balance sheet enabled us to grow adjusted book value per share by
6% during the year to $92.76 after returning $2.4 billion of excess capital to shareholders consistent with
our long-standing capital management strategy.
Turning to production our marketplace execution was excellent and fourth quarter net written premiums
increased by 6% to $7.1 billion marking the 12th consecutive quarter in which we generated premium
growth in all 3 business segments.
Net written premiums in Business Insurance increased 5%. Domestic renewal premium change was
7.8% including renewal rate change of 5.1% in both cases the highest level since 2013 while retention
remained very strong.
In Bond & Specialty Insurance net written premiums increased by 9% with strong growth in both our
Management Liability and Surety businesses. Renewal premium change in our domestic Management
Liability business was 6.6% up about 2 points over the prior year quarter and the highest it has been
since 2014 while retention remained historically high at 89%.
In Personal Insurance net written premiums increased by 6% reflecting growth in both Agency Auto and
Agency Homeowners. In our Agency Homeowners business renewal premium change increased to 7.4%
its highest level since 2014. You'll hear more shortly from Greg Tom and Michael about our segment
results.
To sum it up our perform and transform call to action served us well this past year. In a challenging
environment we generated a nearly 11% core return on equity. We also made important investments
broadly across our value chain advancing our ambitious innovation agenda. We digitized sales and
service capabilities improved workflows to increase speed and responsiveness rolled out new products
implemented new analytic capabilities and put claims-related digital tools in the hands of our customers
and claim professionals just to name a few.
All of these and other important initiatives are part of our coordinated efforts to deliver on 3 priorities
aimed at positioning Travelers for continued success well into the future namely: extending our lead
in risk expertise; providing great experiences to our customers agents brokers and employees; and
optimizing productivity and efficiency.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
With our relentless focus on execution deep and talented team sophisticated analytical approach to
underwriting and high degree of respect for our shareholders' capital we are well positioned to continue to
deliver meaningful shareholder value over time.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Dan.
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Thank you Alan. Core income for the fourth quarter was $867 million up from $571 million in the prior
year quarter and core ROE was 14.8% up from 10%. The improvement in both measures from last year's
fourth quarter resulted primarily from a lower level of catastrophe losses.
Our fourth quarter results include $85 million of pretax cat losses which consists of $186 million of cat
events partially offset by $101 million of cat recoveries under the new treaty. Recall that under that
treaty we were reinsured for 86% of losses above a $1.3 billion retention and that through the third
quarter we had accumulated $1.2 billion towards that retention.
PYD in the current quarter for which I'll provide more detail shortly was net favorable $60 million pretax.
The underlying combined ratio of 92.1% which excludes the impacts of cats and PYD increased by 1 point
from the prior year quarter.
Our pretax underlying underwriting gain of $538 million was down modestly from $578 million in the
prior year quarter reflecting the higher loss level associated with ongoing challenges related to the more
aggressive tort environment partially offset by the volume benefit from higher levels of premium.
The fourth quarter expense ratio of 29.1% brings the full year expense ratio to 29.6%. These results
reflect the progress we've made in our strategic focus on productivity and efficiency in recent years and
this is our lowest full year expense ratio since 2005.
After-tax net investment income decreased slightly from the prior year quarter to $525 million as
increases in fixed income were more than offset by lower returns in our non-fixed income portfolio. In
2020 we expect that fixed income NII will decrease by approximately $5 million to $10 million after-tax
per quarter compared to the corresponding periods of 2019 as we projected the benefit of higher average
levels of invested assets will be more than offset by a lower average yield on the portfolio given the lower
interest rate environment.
All 3 segments reported modest net favorable prior year reserve development in the fourth quarter. In
Personal Insurance both auto and property performed better than expected for multiple accident years.
In Bond & Specialty we experienced better-than-expected loss development in the Fidelity and Surety
line. In Business Insurance net favorable PYD included about $140 million of better-than-expected loss
experience in workers' comp and unfavorable development in the general liability and commercial multi-
peril lines.
When our combined 2019 Schedule P is filed early in the second quarter we expect the results to be
consistent with our commentary throughout the year with strengthening in the commercial liability lines
and favorability in workers' comp Fidelity and Surety and the personal lines coverages.
Page 22 of the earnings presentation provides information about our January 1 cat treaty renewals. Our
long-standing corporate cat XOL treaty renewed on terms in line with the expiring treaty and continues to
provide coverage for both single cat events and the aggregation of losses from multiple cat events.
As you know for 2019 we added a new property aggregate catastrophe XOL treaty. First let me take a
moment to summarize the impact of that treaty on our 2019 results.
For the full year as expected the treaty increased our underlying combined ratio by about 0.5 point. The
treaty had essentially no impact on the full year's total combined ratio as the impact on the underlying
combined ratio was virtually offset by the benefit of cat recoveries under the treaty also very much in
line with our assumptions. Because we did not surpass our retention level until the fourth quarter that's
when we began to recognize recoveries under the treaty. So the impact on the fourth quarter specifically
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
was a benefit to the total combined ratio of more than 1 point and there was virtually no impact on the
underlying combined ratio.
As renewed for 2020 this treaty will continue to address from dollar one qualifying PCS-designated
events in North America for which we incur losses of $5 million or more providing aggregate coverage of
$280 million part of $500 million of losses above an aggregate retention of $1.55 billion. The aggregate
retention for 2020 increased from last year's $1.3 billion largely reflecting recent years and anticipated
growth in our property book. Hurricane and earthquake events once again have a $250 million per
occurrence cap.
Since we placed a lower percentage of the treaty than last year the cost of the treaty will be
proportionately lower in 2020. So incorporating our assumptions about cat and non-cat weather for 2020
we would expect the full year impact on our underlying combined ratio to be slightly less than the roughly
0.5 point we experienced in 2019 and we would once again anticipate only a minimal impact on the total
combined ratio.
Turning to capital management. Operating cash flows for the quarter of $1.4 billion were again very
strong. All our capital ratios were at or better than target levels and we ended the quarter with holding
company liquidity of approximately $1.4 billion. For the full year operating cash flow exceeded $5 billion
our highest level since 2007 which was an unusually light cat year loss.
Interest rates increased modestly during the fourth quarter and accordingly our net unrealized
investment gain decreased from $2.4 billion after-tax as of September 30 to $2.2 billion after-tax at year-
end. Adjusted book value per share which excludes unrealized investment gains and losses was $92.76 at
year-end 6% higher than at the beginning of the year.
We returned $588 million of capital to our shareholders this quarter comprising share repurchases of $376
million and dividends of $212 million. For the year we returned $2.4 billion of capital to shareholders
through dividends and share repurchases.
Finally on a financial modeling note let me turn your attention to Slide 23 of the earnings presentation.
As we enter 2020 we thought it would be helpful to point out the seasonality of our cat losses over
the prior decade. As you can see the second quarter has regularly and noticeably been our largest cat
quarter. Cat losses in the second quarter have been about twice as much as any other quarter on average
and the second quarter has been our largest cat quarter in 6 of the past 10 years.
And now I'll turn the microphone over to Greg for a discussion of Business Insurance.
Gregory Cheshire Toczydlowski
Executive VP & President of Business Insurance
Thanks Dan. For the fourth quarter Business Insurance produced $448 million of segment income a 15%
increase over the fourth quarter of 2018. That brings the full year total for segment income to almost
$1.4 billion. Earnings for both the quarter and the year benefited from strong profitability in workers'
compensation our largest product line as well as higher overall business volumes and a lower expense
ratio as we continue to execute on our strategy of growing the top line at attractive returns and improving
our operating leverage.
The underlying combined ratio for the quarter was 96.4% 1 point higher than the fourth quarter of 2018.
We've included information on Slide 9 of the earnings presentation that details the components of the
change. As you can see on the slide there is about 0.33 point of net unfavorable impact from items that
roll forward from prior quarters. There is also about 1 point of net unfavorable impact from items that
are new in the fourth quarter including about 0.5 point associated with additional changes in our general
liability and commercial auto loss estimates. And along with that the current quarter includes about 1.5
points related to the re-estimation of the first 3 quarters of the year.
For the full year the underlying combined ratio of 96.2% was 0.5 point higher than the full year 2018.
Slide 10 of the earnings presentation provides a detailed view of the various items impacting the year-
over-year results.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Before turning to the top line and production I'll provide a little more context on the tort environment and
our international loss activity. Regarding the tort environment to get our best view of the escalating loss
costs we've leveraged our leading data and analytics and importantly the tight feedback loop among our
business leaders underwriters claims professionals and actuaries. We have a carefully underwritten book
of business with largely a main street orientation which we have targeted grown and optimized for years.
More than 90% of our domestic policies have limits of $2 million or less excluding workers' compensation
where limits don't apply.
While we will continue to pursue claims strategies and underwriting actions to mitigate the impacts from
the worsening tort environment our primary action will be to seek more rate. During the quarter we were
once again successful in achieving meaningful improvement in renewal rate change while maintaining
very high levels of retention which is evidence that we're not alone in driving rate. All of that is consistent
with our view that what we're experiencing is environmental.
As for international we've been experiencing elevated losses in the property lines. We're pursuing
and achieving significant renewal rate increases to address these trends as you can see within the
international production statistics on Page 20 of the earnings presentation.
In addition to that we're executing a variety of profit improvement initiatives including tightening terms
and conditions and paring back exposures of certain lines and accounts. While more work needs to be
done we're making good progress with all of these efforts.
Turning to the top line. Net written premiums were up 5% in the quarter and 4% for the full year driven
by strong production results. While renewal premium change continues to be the largest contributor we
also grew our customer base for the year through strong retention and new business. We're pleased with
the continued progress we're making on our strategic initiatives and remain encouraged by the feedback
from our agent and broker partners.
In terms of domestic production we achieved strong renewal premium change of 7.8% with renewal
rate change of 5.1% while retention remained high at 84% a reflection of the quality of our book. The
renewal rate change of 5.1% was the highest result since the fourth quarter of 2013 and was up 0.7 point
from the third quarter and more than 3.5 points from the fourth quarter of last year. This demonstrates
our continued momentum notwithstanding the downward pressure in workers' compensation pricing.
We are achieving higher rate levels broadly across our book with about 3/4 of our Middle Market accounts
getting positive rate increases this quarter which is up from about 2/3 in the fourth quarter of last year.
A further illustration of the broad nature of our progress is on Slide 14 of the earnings presentation. For
our core commercial accounts business the slide reflects the percentage of renewed accounts in 3 rate
bands for the fourth quarters of 2017 2018 and 2019. As you can see from the graph the percentage
of accounts renewing flat or with the rate decrease has declined while the percentage of accounts
renewing with the rate increase is up with the level of rate increase skewed higher. In other words a
higher proportion of our accounts are getting a rate increase and a higher proportion of our accounts are
getting a more significant rate increase. And this progress has been achieved while retention has remained
at historically high levels. From a line of business perspective outside of workers' compensation we
achieved higher rate increases in all lines as compared to both the third quarter of this year and the fourth
quarter of last year.
For the segment new business of $488 million was strong and consistent with the prior year quarter.
As for the individual businesses in Select renewal premium change of 7.2% and renewal rate change
of 1.9% were both up from the third quarter and from the fourth quarter of last year while retention
remained strong at 83%. New business of $105 million was consistent with the strong prior year quarter.
We continue to advance our investments related to product development and ease of doing business and
are encouraged with the progress and results to date.
In Middle Market renewal premium change was 7.1% with renewal rate change of 5% up more than 1
point from the third quarter and more than 3.5 points from the fourth quarter of last year while retention
remained high at 86%. New business of $284 million was up slightly from the prior year quarter bringing
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
the full year total to just over $1.2 billion reflecting higher new business pricing as well as benefits from
our ongoing strategic initiatives.
To sum up the fourth quarter wrapped up the year in which a lot of things went well and we faced some
challenges most notably the continued pressure from the tort environment. We're confident that we have
the insights and capabilities to a changing environment that will position us well in the market in 2020 and
beyond. We couldn't be more pleased with our local execution and we'll continue to seek rate and use all
other available levers to meet our return objectives.
Before I turn the call over to Tom to talk about Bond & Specialty results I want to comment on our
outlook for renewal premium change in underlying -- underwriting results since we will not be filing our
10-K for a few weeks.
For Business Insurance we expect RPC in 2020 will be higher than 2019. We expect the underlying
combined ratio for the full year 2020 will be lower than in 2019. This assumes the anticipated impacts of
earned pricing in excess of loss cost trends and improved results in our international business.
Underneath that full year outlook we expect the improvements in the underlying combined ratio to come
in the second through fourth quarters of the year as the first quarter of 2020 will include the roll-forward
impacts of the actions we took in the second third and fourth quarters of 2019 for the General Liability
and Commercial Auto product lines.
With that I'll turn the call over to Tom.
Thomas M. Kunkel
Executive VP and President of Bond & Specialty Insurance
Thanks Greg. Bond & Specialty delivered another quarter of strong returns and growth. Segment income
was $167 million a decrease of $53 million from the prior year quarter primarily due to a lower level of
net favorable prior year reserve development. The combined and underlying combined ratios remained
strong at 78.6% and 81.3% respectively. The underlying combined ratio increased 3.2 points from the
prior year quarter largely reflecting the impact of the roll forward of higher loss estimates for Management
Liability coverages that we discussed with you last quarter. The underlying underwriting gain was slightly
lower than the prior year quarter as the earned impact of higher business volumes largely offset the
higher underlying combined ratio.
Turning to top line. Net written premiums were up 9% for the quarter reflecting growth across all our
businesses. In our domestic Management Liability business we are pleased that the retention remained at
a very strong 89% with renewal premium change higher at 6.6%. These production results are consistent
with our strategy to maintain strong retention of our high-quality portfolio while executing targeted pricing
actions. We will continue to pursue price increases where warranted.
Domestic Management Liability new business for the quarter increased 17% to $62 million and domestic
Surety and our international business both posted solid growth in the quarter. We remain pleased with our
strong field execution and our strategic long-term investments in market-leading products and services
together with our commitment to thoughtful and disciplined underwriting and risk selection.
So Bond & Specialty results remain strong and we feel terrific about our ability to continue to deliver top
line growth with strong returns over time.
In terms of our 2020 outlook we expect RPC for our domestic Management Liability business will be
higher and the underlying combined ratio will be slightly higher in each case as compared to 2019.
Additionally for 2020 we expect that the underlying underwriting margin will be broadly consistent with
2019 as the impact of higher business volumes will offset the slightly higher underwriting -- underlying
combined ratio.
And now I'll turn it over to Michael to discuss Personal Insurance.
Michael Frederick Klein
Executive VP & President of Personal Insurance
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Thanks Tom and good morning everyone. In Personal Insurance we're very pleased with our fourth
quarter and full year results. For the fourth quarter segment income was $327 million and our combined
ratio was 88.5%. For the full year segment income was $824 million an improvement of $527 million
from the prior year and the combined ratio was 94.2%.
The results for both periods reflect solid improvements from the prior year driven by significantly lower
catastrophes. Underwriting income also benefited from higher levels of earned premium. Net written
premium growth for the fourth quarter and full year was 6% and 5% respectively with continued strong
retention renewal premium change and new business.
Agency Automobile delivered solid results in the quarter with a combined ratio of 99.2% in what is
typically our highest combined ratio quarter for the line. The 3.9 point increase relative to the prior period
is largely reflective of the unusually low level of losses in the fourth quarter of 2018.
The full year combined ratio was an outstanding 94% which was comparable to the prior year. The
underlying combined ratio of 94.6% improved 0.7 points benefiting from earned pricing that exceeded
loss trends in the first half of the year as well as favorable frequency throughout 2019.
In Agency Homeowners & Other the fourth quarter combined ratio of 75.8% improved by 34 points in
comparison to the prior year quarter which was significantly impacted by catastrophes specifically the
California wildfires and Hurricane Michael.
On an underlying basis the combined ratio was 73.6% or 1.1 points higher than the prior year quarter
driven by higher non-weather loss activity. The full year 2019 combined ratio was an excellent 92.5% as
lower catastrophe losses drove a 13.1 point improvement from the prior year. The underlying combined
ratio was up 4 points to 85.6% for the year due primarily to higher non-catastrophe weather-related
losses and the impact of the new catastrophe reinsurance treaty.
As we've discussed with you previously we continue to take pricing and underwriting actions to address
higher levels of underlying loss activity.
Shifting to quarterly production. Agency Automobile net written premiums grew 2% with modest growth in
new business and policies in force while retention remained strong at 84% and renewal premium change
was 2.9%. We continue to make progress in our efforts to grow this profitable line.
Agency Homeowners & Other delivered another strong quarter with net written premium growth of 13%
driven by higher new business levels retention at 86% and renewal premium change rising to 7.4%
double the level from the prior year quarter.
We remain pleased with the rollout of our Quantum Home 2.0 product which is now available in 34 states
and the District of Columbia. Quantum Home 2.0's granular pricing segmentation customizable coverages
and ease of quoting combine to form a solution that is both sophisticated and simple and our increased
quote volume and higher average premiums suggested hitting the mark with both agents and customers.
Turning to our outlook. We expect that for 2020 compared to 2019 Agency Homeowners & Other renewal
premium changes will be higher while Agency Automobile renewal premium changes will remain positive
but be lower. The underlying combined ratios for both Agency Homeowners & Other and for the personal
and segment -- Personal Insurance segment as a whole will be lower. This improvement is expected in
the second through fourth quarters of the year assuming lower levels of non-catastrophe weather-related
losses. For Agency Automobile the outlook is for the underlying combined ratio to be broadly consistent.
All in it was a very good year for Personal Insurance with a second consecutive year of strong profitability
in Auto and strong and significantly improved homeowners' profitability. In addition we achieved record
levels of domestic net written premium new business and policies in force. We have strong momentum
going into 2020 and are well positioned to deliver profitable growth while investing in capabilities that will
continue to enhance the value of our franchise.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Abbe.
Abbe F. Goldstein
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks Michael and we're ready to take your questions now.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Question and Answer
Operator
[Operator Instructions] Your first question is from Michael Phillips with Morgan Stanley.
Michael Wayne Phillips
Morgan Stanley Research Division
My first question I'm thinking about Slide 9 and specifically the bottom of Slide 9. I know you guys talk
about kind of longer-term trends of 4% to 4.5% that gives a 4.5% the last time and I know you focus on
long-term trends. But you've moved that up a bit in the last couple of quarters more on kind of the catch-
up which you again referred to here in Slide 9. So I'm wondering if you still think that 4.5% is something
you're comfortable with. Or how you think about that going forward now?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Michael it's Dan Frey. So I'll draw the distinction between sort of the long-term trend assumption and
what's going to roll through any particular quarter or any year. So in that slide we're reconciling for you
the difference between last year's combined ratio and this year's combined ratio. And clearly for the year
as a whole when we look at the change in the loss environment overall it was more than 4.5%.
We did remember raise our view of the long-term trend. I think we talked about that back in the second
quarter. But we haven't changed it since then. So these are more reactions to data that we're seeing in the
current environment raising the level of losses but not the trajectory from this point forward.
Michael Wayne Phillips
Morgan Stanley Research Division
Okay. I mean I guess obviously what I'm getting to is that tug of war between pricing and loss trends
and kind of who wins that tug of war right now. And obviously this quarter the tug of war went to loss
trends because margins were down but a lot of your commentary talks about the outlook being better for
the underlying certainly I think you said starting in the second quarter. So you're still thinking that pricing
-- earned pricing will get better than loss trends as we get into the back half of this year it sounds like. Is
that what you're saying?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Yes that's full year. So remember the outlook is really a 12-month broad view of what we think the
environment is going to be as opposed to a quarter-by-quarter reconciliation. The comment Greg made is
that when we compare Q1 in particular of '20 to Q1 of '19 the strengthening that we've done for 2019
came in Q2 Q3 and Q4 primarily. So that comparison in and of itself is going to be a little different than
the year more broadly.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Michael it's Alan. I would also just encourage you to make sure you're looking at Slide 10 too because
there's a lot of moving pieces in Slide 9 that when you look at it on a full year basis it's just -- it's a little
bit of an easier view to take in.
Michael Wayne Phillips
Morgan Stanley Research Division
Yes okay. A second question I guess I appreciate the color you guys gave on the Business Insurance
PYD the $140 million you talked about for comp that was helpful.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
I guess on the CMP piece I assume the adverse there was on the liability side of CMP I just wanted to
confirm that. And then if so I guess what's driving that? Are you seeing kind of -- is that more of kind of
the tort environment leaking down from GL into the smaller accounts of CMP liability? Or kind of what's
driving that piece?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Yes Michael it's Dan again. So I'd say broadly yes. And I'd remind you that if you go back and look at
the results we've disclosed throughout the year even going back to Q1 of this year we did talk about CMP
as being an unfavorable contributor to prior year reserve development and BI even going back to Q1.
And clearly as you're alluding to CMP has got both a property and a liability component. It is the liability
component. But as we've made comments over the second third and now fourth quarters of this year
when we talk about the liability environment in Business Insurance that for us is meant to include the
liability component of CMP as opposed to this being something new and different.
Operator
Your next question is from Larry Greenberg with Janney Montgomery.
Lawrence David Greenberg
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC Research Division
I guess I'm just asking a qualitative question. Where you sit today or feel today versus where things
stood coming out of the third quarter obviously you're pushing -- this is all about Business Insurance.
Obviously you're pushing price. To some extent you're shooting at a moving target with loss trend and
all the issues surrounding that. Is there -- you've got -- you've now got another quarter just looking back
to from the third. Is there any way to say that you're more comfortable with where you sit today and
what you're seeing and how the relationship with pricing and loss trend is moving? Just looking for some
qualitative thoughts on that.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Yes Larry it's Alan. Let me take a stab at that. So first I would say we are definitely pleased with the
trajectory of rate versus loss trend. That continues to be a good story. And importantly you got to look at
retention in that regard. That's hanging in there which suggests we think this is an environmental thing
and we would say that the pricing actions have room to go here.
In terms of our overall sense of the balance sheet we are closer to the end of this than we were a year
ago that's for sure. And what we're very confident in is we're confident in the talent we've got looking at
this we're confident in our processes we're confident in our data and analytics and we're confident that
we understand the environment out there. So very confident in our best estimate.
Can we tell you this is the end of it. Of course not. We couldn't and nobody could. But that -- I don't
mean to imply any lack of confidence in again the data analytics people process here. This is an
environmental issue and we think we're on top of it.
Lawrence David Greenberg
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC Research Division
And then just as a follow-up you talk about the other levers that you might have in addition to pricing.
Are you willing to share any of those other levers to go at this environmental issue?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Well certainly because it is environmental just the playbooks as you go to rate that's just the way
you solve those issues. Now anytime you have a circumstance like this and frankly any time in any
book of business we're always looking to optimize. We're always pulling books of business apart
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
and understanding where there are opportunities to improve. And that's true in our best-performing
businesses and our worst-performing businesses. So you go through that process and there are always
things that we can do better and we will do those things.
When we look at this environment in particular relative to our overall book of business there are around
the edges accounts or segments of the business that we think in the current environment don't make
sense and we'll either get the right rate or we'll get off them.
And then probably to the question you're really asking is what we're doing from a claim perspective.
And clearly the plaintiffs' bar is getting more sophisticated more clever more aggressive. And I guess
in response to that I would say so are we. I'm not anxious to detail our tactics or strategies. I think
that would probably be unwise for us to do that. But we've got a very large and very sophisticated claim
operation lawyers' litigation strategy. And so we will employ all those levers as well.
Operator
Your next question is from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
I had a couple of questions. First just on the tort environment overall. You've been more vocal than most
other companies. Just trying to understand is the environment stabilizing or has it gotten worse as you
went through 2019?
And then the other question I just had is on your expense ratio which was very good for the year and for
the quarter. To what extent is it sustainable versus sort of being an aberration?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Yes. Thanks for the question. I'll start with the tort environment then I'll ask Dan to talk about the
expense ratio. Clearly I think if you look at our results throughout the year we would say I don't know
if the environment's gotten worse but clearly the losses have come in worse than our expectations. And
one thing you've got to remember is we are setting reserves for years in very long tail lines of business
where there is a very high percentage of IBNR.
So the paid in case is a relatively small percentage of this. And so we're squaring triangles. We're looking
at the data as it comes in every quarter comparing it to our expectations and that's what has gotten
worse. And I will say quarter in quarter out we have not responded gingerly. We have responded
assertively to this and yet it's continued to come in a little bit worse than our expectations.
But as I said before we are 5 quarters closer to the end of this than we were a year ago. And again we
think we understand the market dynamics. We think we understand what's causing this and we feel very
good about our analytics and our process.
Dan do you want to talk about the expense ratio?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Sure. So I'll focus you on the full year because there's going to be a little bit of variability from quarter-to-
quarter. So at 29.6% for the full year that's a range we're comfortable with now. It's certainly noticeably
better than it was several years ago and steady progress over the last 3 years.
I think everything comes back to the way we talk about the business consistently which is we're trying
to optimize returns over time. There's not really a specific targeted expense ratio although in the current
environment the level that we're at now is a level that plus or minus we're pretty comfortable with in this
environment. We've been able to get productivity and efficiency gains. And at the same time we've been
able to make the investments in the business that we think to make -- we needed to make for our success
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
going forward. And we'll always balance those things. The fact that it's come out at 29.6% for the year
feels good. And this is a level that we're pretty comfortable with in this environment.
Jamminder Singh Bhullar
JP Morgan Chase & Co Research Division
Okay. And if I could ask 1 more. Just on Personal Auto I think you mentioned you expect margins to be
stable in 2020. But if we look over the past couple of years the pace of price hikes has actually steadily
slowed and it seems like for the industry that's worse than this loss cost inflation. So what gives you the
confidence that margins in Personal Auto won't get worse in 2020?
Michael Frederick Klein
Executive VP & President of Personal Insurance
Sure Jimmy. This is Michael Klein. I would say a couple of things. One most of the rhetoric in the industry
about loss trend deterioration focuses on severity which is a piece of the puzzle and we certainly are
observing some of the same dynamics in terms of collision and physical damage severity that you're
seeing folks talk about as well as bodily injury severity.
On the good news front has been frequency. And as I mentioned we continued to see favorable frequency
better than our expectations sort of throughout 2019. And we put those frequency and severity results
together with a longer-term view of loss trend and view loss trend as actually in aggregate relatively
consistent going into 2020. And then the lower renewal premium change outlook is again on the margin.
And again lower but continued positive. And so that's where we land on broadly consistent.
And again I think much like Greg's commentary in Personal Insurance rate versus loss trend is 1
dynamic that drives you to your outlook for a combined ratio but the other levers that you use to manage
the business including underwriting terms conditions claim process claim efficiencies come into that
view of the outlook as well. So it's not just a linear roll forward of rate versus loss trend getting you to
that answer.
Operator
Your next question is from Mike Zaremski with Crédit Suisse.
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Sticking with the tort environment first. Is it more pronounced any geographies or maybe by employer
size? And probably the number one question I get is could this -- could we still be in the early innings
of this upwards trend? I don't know if there's a way to frame historically how high year-over-year tort
inflation has gotten in the past.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Yes. Thanks for the question Mike. So you could look at any 1 quarter and there may be a pocket of heat
in terms of geography or business or line but I think the right way to answer that question is to take a
step back and look at the last year. And when we take a step back and look at the last year we would say
it's been broadly across our casualty coverages geographically line of business and so on and so forth.
I would point out that a -- the vast majority of the business we write has 500 or fewer employees. And as
Greg mentioned more than 90% of our policies have a limit of $2 million or less. So I would say this is a
relatively broad-based phenomenon is the way to think about it.
Now you asked about relative to history. We've had other liability environments I'll say over the last
decade or 2 but -- and there are some people out there that try to compare them. I don't know that you
really can compare them. Just the facts and circumstances are different. You've got -- companies have
different books of business. We've got -- all of us have different data and analytics available to us. But I
think most importantly if you look at prior liability environments I'll call them those have largely been
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
driven by medical inflation. This one is driven by social inflation. And I'm not aware in recent history of
another environment where distributed social inflation has been the driver.
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Okay got it. That's helpful. And my last question is regarding Slide 23 in the deck on the historical
catastrophe losses. Would you say that over the last decade or so hurricane losses in the U.S. have
been less than expected? I'm basically trying to get at should the 3Q and maybe 4Q cat load look a little
differently if we're thinking about this on a forward basis?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Mike it's Dan. I'm not quite sure how to answer that question. What you're seeing here is our numbers.
And for sure the point I think we're trying to make here is our experience and this includes as a result of
underwriting actions taken over the previous 10 to 15 years to really sort of move the mix of our book so
that it's less coastal than it was a decade or more than that ago.
So there's been a lot of industry commentary around hurricanes. I don't know that anybody feels that
there's any less exposure to hurricanes broadly now than there was 2 years ago 5 years ago or 10 years
ago. I think as a percentage of where our risks are we've probably on a relative basis mitigated our
hurricane risk compared to the other risks and I think that's really the point we're trying to make in this
slide is that second quarter for us has been the issue which is not aligned with the traditional hurricane
not because I think on a macro basis the hurricane environment is more benign. I don't really have an
opinion on that. We're just telling you in our book based on where we write and the exposures we have
this is what our result looks like over the past 10 years.
Michael David Zaremski
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Okay. Yes I guess I'll follow-up because it still feels like on a forward basis that since we've not -- kind
of where there haven't -- there's been less hurricane activity. I think The Street definitely has 3Q being a
little more pronounced and it sounds like you're saying maybe we should weight it a little differently but
I'll follow up.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Mike I'll just add. That's definitely why we provided the slide. We look at models and we scratch our
heads a little bit. And obviously we don't know what 2020 is going to look like or 2021 or any other year
right? We have no idea where the volatility could come from. But certainly when we think about how --
what our assumptions are and what our plans are our starting point is the last 10 years and we think it's
relevant for thinking about this year and future years.
Operator
Your next question is from Meyer Shields with KBW.
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Research Division
I think this is a question for Greg. Within the BI segment Middle Market the delta between renewal
premium and renewal rate change was the smallest it's been in some time. Is there something going on
with exposure units there that is worth noting? Or is that just a quarterly fluctuation?
Gregory Cheshire Toczydlowski
Executive VP & President of Business Insurance
Meyer this is Greg. Yes that's just quarterly fluctuation. You can see the exposure is down a little bit over
the last 2 quarters and we do a lot of unpacking on that try to understand is that individual accounts or
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
broad economic activity and we think it's more of the latter. If you compare the economic activity in the
back half of this year to 2018 it's linear with what we're seeing on the exposure change.
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Research Division
Okay fantastic. And then for Michael really quickly you talked about the combined ratio I want to say
for personal lines improving assuming -- or reflecting a return to normalized non-cat weather. Is that just
a regression to the mean? Or is that a reflection of claims actions or underwriting changes?
Michael Frederick Klein
Executive VP & President of Personal Insurance
Sure Meyer. I appreciate the question. I would say 2 things. One we do say that it reflects lower and
more normalized expectation for a non-cat weather. That doesn't mean a reversion to the mean; it means
a lower expectation than we saw in 2018. And as we've been talking about 2018 was -- I'm sorry 2019
-- what we've been talking about is non-cat weather has been elevated in 2019. We have an expectation
in 2020 that's lower than the 2019 level. But importantly continues to reflect updated estimates and an
updated view of non-cat weather loss activity which has been rising.
So I wouldn't want you to assume that the assumption in that outlook is the same assumption we had 2
or 3 or 4 years ago. It in fact includes more loss content than it would have 2 or 3 or 4 years ago. And so
we see margins in this segment and margins in Agency Homeowners & Other improving despite the fact
that we have a higher view of the non-cat weather loss content in that outlook than we would have had a
year ago or 2 years ago.
Operator
Next question is from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Yes a couple of questions here for you. First one curious any update with respect to kind of reviver
statutes given we've seen some other states expand or open the statute of limitations?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Brian it's Dan. Yes so in the quarter again a modest amount of reserve activity in our PYD number
related to revivers not big enough to have been called out but we saw California enact reviver this
quarter. I think North Carolina as well. California is one that gets a lot of attention. It's a big -- obviously a
big state and a very active legal environment. But remember -- or in case you don't remember California
had once before opened a reviver. And so that goes into our consideration there.
So there has been activity pretty steadily throughout the year. First quarter was the most notable for us
and we talked about it then. But there's been modest activity following that. And that did occur again in
the fourth quarter.
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Great. And then second question just quickly on workers' comp. I mean you've noted and others have
noted the really favorable loss cost environment there that is obviously offsetting some of the rate
reductions that we're seeing. Would you expect that to continue going into 2020? Is that kind of your
expectations given the low unemployment environment I guess although we've seen a pickup in medical
cost inflation?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Is your question whether we expect PYD to continue in workers' comp?
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
No no no. Just the loss trend environment with respect to workers' compensation. Not so much the PYD
but just the very favorable trends we're seeing kind of frequency trends in comp as well as severity which
is I guess at kind of average.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
The trends have been favorable. We generally assume a reversion to a longer-term mean there. So we
don't assume that all the favorability will continue. I mean there has been a very long-term improvement
in overall workers' comp frequency. So we certainly take that into account but the results have been even
better than that and we don't necessarily assume that's going to continue. Medical inflation the severity
side has been pretty benign as well. And similarly we tend to think that these things revert.
Operator
The next question is from Ryan Tunis with Autonomous Research.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
I guess this one is just for Alan and going back to the commentary on thinking we're closer to the end
than the beginning. So we've had a few charges in the past few quarters. This one is bigger than the one
we saw 3Q. Just trying to get maybe some sense of when you took this charge or these tweaks that you
made how does that give you more comfort? Is there more IBNR in these than there have been in the
past? Like where are we at now relative to the third quarter that gives you confidence in saying that?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Well it's another quarter. It's another data point. It's -- every time you get a little bit more data you get a
little bit better view on where the environment is. And so from that perspective we feel better.
I can't look at it and tell you where the first second and third quarters of next year are coming in. So from
that perspective there continues to be some uncertainty but we're another quarter into it. And frankly
we're 5 quarters into it. And so the view we've developed over 5 quarters our view of the environment
every quarter we dig into our book a little bit more and test our hypotheses and all that gives us a little
bit more confidence. I don't -- I'm not -- I can't comment about what's going to happen in the first
quarter. We just don't know yet Ryan.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
So when you think about your -- I guess your outlook for 2020 in terms of hopefully improving Business
Insurance margins do you still think it's -- if you weren't to achieve that do you still think that would be
a result of the tort environment? Or do you think it would have more to do with pricing or execution or
something on other fronts?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
I mean obviously any of those things could be a contributor. Certainly social inflation continues to be a
risk factor and some uncertainty for us. But any of those things could be a contributor. We feel as I said
we've got confidence in our processes. We -- our objective is always to get this number right. We price
and reserve based on 1 view of loss costs. And so it's important to us to try to get it right. And so we
think we've done that.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 18
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Operator
Your next question is from Paul Newsome with Piper Sandler.
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
I want to ask about commission rates. We've seen at least anecdotal data that there's some pretty high
commissions being paid for workers' comp. Allstate is changing its personal lines -- its private passenger
auto and personal lines commissions. Is Travelers doing anything broadly too as others are changing
commission rates?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Yes I would say broadly our commission rates are reasonably stable. So no.
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
And then on the -- back to the [ material ] thing. Do you have the ability or is it really feasible to lower
limits? And would that in your view really on an industry-wide basis be one of the possible fixes for
this outside of rate because [ as I recall ] there's more issues on the higher the limit the more the legal
involvement.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Yes. I mean let me just go back and highlight a comment Greg made in his prepared remarks and I
just referenced. 90% or so of our policies in liability lines ex workers' comp have policy limits of $2
million or less. So I don't think it's -- there's been a lot of industry observers that have commented on this
relationship between the loss environment and the limits profile. We just don't think that's true. There's
plenty of activity on the smaller accounts.
We haven't and we haven't seen the industry necessarily move to changing the limits profile. We think our
customers are out there and they need a certain level of protection to manage their businesses and we
intend to help them manage their risk in their businesses. We just got to charge the right price for it. And
so solving this through broadly changing limits profiles is probably not the answer.
Operator
Your next question is from Amit Kumar with Buckingham Research.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
Two follow-up questions. The first question goes back to Brian's question on CVA. Does your Business
Insurance outlook contemplate any potential action from CVA down the road because by the time we get
to the back half of 2020 some of those reviver windows will start closing?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
So Amit it's Dan. We're aware of the revivers that have been enacted and are open and the periods
through which they'll close. What we've tried to do in 2019 is book our best estimate of the ultimate loss
costs related to that activity regardless of the period of time for which the reviver is open.
Obviously when the windows close we'll have a more crystallized view of the volume and types of claims
that have actually come in. To this point we haven't seen anything in the activity that's come in that
makes us change our view of the reserves related to CVA.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 19
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Regarding the 2020 outlook in general our view -- one our commentary relates to underlying combined
ratio. But I'd make the comment that generally speaking and we've said this consistently we don't
anticipate prior year reserve development either favorable or unfavorable on a go-forward basis. We think
all the information we have regarding the claim environment as it exists today is reflected in our reserves
today.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
Got it. But the only other question I have is and I want to go back to the initial question on the CMP the
CMP product is towards the small- to mid-sized accounts. The GL product is towards the larger customer
account. I'm curious just going back to the broader discussion on tort environment would it be fair to say
that the adjustments have sort of started from the National Accounts permeated to Middle Market and
then moved on to Select? Or how should we think about that?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
No definitely not. It started in Commercial Auto and I'm looking around the room here right? I think
99% of our Commercial Auto policies have policy limits of $2 million or less I think.
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
It's $1 million actually.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
So -- $1 million. So this isn't something that started large and moved down. This is something that's
started on the small end and spread on the small end.
Amit Kumar
The Buckingham Research Group Incorporated
Got it. Okay. I was just trying to understand the directionality of the tort climate because we've
consistently heard that the attorney involvement has continued to move down and down and down into
the smallest claims versus the larger claims. That's where I was heading with that question.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Yes. And again that's why we gave you our limits profile and talked about the fact that the vast majority
of our commercial lines policies have customers of -- employees of 500 or fewer. I mean it's a -- we are a
main street writer. We've got a Middle Market and small commercial business and we are feeling the heat
in those policies that have limits of $2 million or less.
Now we did observe a year ago that to a large degree this started in Commercial Auto and that made
perfect sense to us because there was a lot of homogeneity to those claims. Those are very easy claims
because the claim's hard to bring but it did spread to GL. And again largely on -- not on the National
Accounts large in limit size. Those larger accounts with big limits those have always had aggressive
attorneys on them. What we're seeing now is the attorney participation spreading into -- across these
small accounts.
Operator
Your final question comes from David Motemaden with Evercore ISI.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 20
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Just a question for Alan on the tort environment and the losses in BI. I guess I'm just trying to get
a sense for how far above expectations did the loss experience come in this quarter compared to last
quarter. Was it a smaller amount of deviation versus expectations compared to last quarter? Has that
narrowed over the past 5 quarters? Just trying to get a sense for how -- where we are in terms of seeing
more charges here going forward.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
I think -- just I'm taking a step back and trying to think about the year which I think is sort of the right
way to think about it. Probably the right way to think about it is Slide 10 on a full year basis. I don't
really know that the quarter-by-quarter view really gives you any insight but maybe the answer to your
question is somewhat consistent. Dan what would you say?
Daniel Stephen Frey
Executive VP & CFO
Yes. I think that in broad magnitude we saw bad news in the second quarter. We saw bad news in the
third quarter. We saw bad news in the fourth quarter. They weren't noticeably different in terms of the
way they felt in terms of magnitude. And if you step back and looked at the full year overall related to
the tort environment or social inflation things being worse than they had been we've seen the -- in the
underlying combined ratio on a full year basis compared to a year ago it's probably about a full point
higher than it was. And when we think about the fact that there has also been an impact in PYD we think
about that same thing over the full year basis. It's hard to attribute exactly what drove loss changes. But
to the best that we can characterize it and you should not take this to be there's a very specific science
but based on the data and analytics we have we'd attribute it's probably to the place worth about 2 points
of bad news within this year's full year prior year reserve development.
David Kenneth Motemaden
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Got it. Okay. And Alan you had mentioned just higher attorney involvement just on the smaller cases or
smaller case sizes. I guess I'm just wondering I guess just how much has that increased. Like are you
seeing it now on like 30% versus 20%? Just trying to get a sense for where that is. And are you assuming
that that continues to increase in your loss picks?
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
Yes. So I don't -- I'm not sure we're going to share the absolute number but I will share with you that the
percentage of claims on which we're seeing lawyers has increased by about 10 points over 7 years -- over
6 years with about half of that increase coming in 2019 and 2018. So that sort of gives you a sense of the
quantum of the increase over recent years and how much of that has come really in just '19 and '18 half
of the increase. One of the reasons why we think it's been such a recent and significant shift.
Gregory Cheshire Toczydlowski
Executive VP & President of Business Insurance
Commercial Auto comment.
Alan David Schnitzer
Chairman & CEO
And just to -- yes Abbe is pointing out to me that's a Commercial Auto statistic.
Operator
At this time there are no further questions. Do you have any closing remarks?
Abbe F. Goldstein
Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 21
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Thank you very much for joining us. And as always if you have any follow-ups please feel free to reach
out to Investor Relations. Have a good day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 22
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES INC. FQ4 2019 EARNINGS CALL  JAN 23 2020
Copyright © 2020 by S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
These materials have been prepared solely for information purposes based upon information generally available to the public
and from sources believed to be reliable. No content (including index data ratings credit-related analyses and data research
model software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified reverse engineered
reproduced or distributed in any form by any means or stored in a database or retrieval system without the prior written permission
of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively S&P Global). The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or
unauthorized purposes. S&P Global and any third-party providers (collectively S&P Global Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy
completeness timeliness or availability of the Content. S&P Global Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions regardless
of the cause for the results obtained from the use of the Content. THE CONTENT IS PROVIDED ON "AS IS" BASIS. S&P GLOBAL
PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE FREEDOM FROM BUGS SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS
THAT THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE
OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Global Parties be liable to any party for any direct indirect incidental
exemplary compensatory punitive special or consequential damages costs expenses legal fees or losses (including without
limitation lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs or losses caused by negligence) in connection with any use of the Content
even if advised of the possibility of such damages. S&P Global Market Intelligence's opinions quotes and credit-related and other
analyses are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of fact or recommendations to purchase
hold or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions and do not address the suitability of any security. S&P Global Market
Intelligence may provide index data. Direct investment in an index is not possible. Exposure to an asset class represented by an
index is available through investable instruments based on that index. S&P Global Market Intelligence assumes no obligation to
update the Content following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the
skill judgment and experience of the user its management employees advisors and/or clients when making investment and other
business decisions. S&P Global Market Intelligence does not act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered
as such. S&P Global keeps certain activities of its divisions separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and
objectivity of their respective activities. As a result certain divisions of S&P Global may have information that is not available to
other S&P Global divisions. S&P Global has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P Global may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from
obligors. S&P Global reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P Global's public ratings and analyses are made
available on its Web sites www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge) and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com
(subscription) and may be distributed through other means including via S&P Global publications and third-party redistributors.
Additional information about our ratings fees is available at www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
© 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 23