
 
American International Group Inc. NYSE:AIG
FQ1 2020 Earnings Call Transcripts
Tuesday May 05 2020 12:00 PM GMT
S&P Global Market Intelligence Estimates
  -FQ1 2020- -FQ2 2020- -FY 2020- -FY 2021-
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE CONSENSUS CONSENSUS CONSENSUS
EPS Normalized  0.77 0.11 (85.71 %) 0.93 3.26 4.73
Revenue  (mm) 11527.71 - 25.29 11674.22 47194.64 47807.04
Currency: USD
Consensus as of  May-05-2020 10:40 AM GMT
    - EPS NORMALIZED  -  
  CONSENSUS ACTUAL SURPRISE
FQ2 2019 1.16 1.43 23.28 %
FQ3 2019 1.00 0.56 (44.00 %)
FQ4 2019 1.01 1.03 1.98 %
FQ1 2020 0.77 0.11 (85.71 %)
1
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
Contents
Table of Contents
 
Call Participants .................................................................................. 3
Presentation .................................................................................. 4
Question and Answer .................................................................................. 15
2
COPYRIGHT © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved
spglobal.com/marketintelligence
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Call Participants
EXECUTIVES
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Douglas Adam Dachille
Executive VP & Chief Investment
Officer
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life &
Retirement
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO Michael Wayne Phillips
Morgan Stanley Research Division
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of Ryan James Tunis
General Insurance Autonomous Research LLP
Sabra Rose Purtill Scott Frost
Deputy CFO and Head of Treasury State Street Global Advisors Inc.
Investor & Rating Agency Relations &
Corporate Development Thomas George Gallagher
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities
ANALYSTS Research Division
Andrew Scott Kligerman Yaron Joseph Kinar
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research
Division
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research
Division
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research
Division
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc.
Research Division
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 3
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen good day and welcome to AIG's First Quarter 2020 Financial Results Conference Call. Today's
conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Sabra Purtill Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead
ma'am.
Sabra Rose Purtill
Deputy CFO and Head of Treasury Investor & Rating Agency Relations & Corporate Development
Thank you. Good morning and thank you all for joining us today. Our call today will cover AIG's first quarter 2020 financial
results announced yesterday afternoon. The news release financial results presentation and financial supplement were
posted on our website at www.aig.com and the 10-Q will be filed later today.
Our speakers today are Brian Duperreault CEO; Peter Zaffino President and COO of AIG and CEO General Insurance;
Kevin Hogan CEO Life and Retirement; and Mark Lyons Chief Financial Officer. We will have time for Q&A after their
remarks.
Today's call may contain forward-looking statements relating to company performance strategic priorities business
mix and market conditions including the effects of COVID-19 on AIG. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance or events and are based on management's current expectations. Actual performance and events may differ
materially. Factors that could cause results to differ include those described in our 2019 annual report on Form 10-K and
other recent filings made with the SEC inclusive of the effects of COVID-19 on AIG which cannot be fully determined at
this time. AIG is not under any obligation and expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statement
whether as a result of new information future events or otherwise.
Additionally some remarks will refer to non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciliation of such measures to the most
comparable GAAP figures is provided in our news release and other financial results materials all of which are available
on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Good morning everyone. It's been an extraordinary few months since we last spoke. Before we start I want to say that I
hope you and your families are healthy and that you've been able to adjust to the new normal that COVID-19 is creating
for all of us.
This crisis has been heartbreaking to witness as it unfolds across the globe. It's a tough time for everyone and the
uncertainty about how long it will last and what life will be like afterward makes this time even harder. I've witnessed a lot
in my 40-plus year career in the insurance industry but this health and humanitarian crisis which quickly became a threat
to the world economy is like nothing any of us has experienced. We believe COVID-19 will be the single largest CAT loss
the industry has ever seen and it will continue to have significant global economic ramifications for the foreseeable future.
Having said that it's been heartwarming to see the compassion and empathy that has emerged. The strength of the first
responders health care providers and other essential workers on the front lines risking their lives to help others and the
people all over the globe sharing resources and helping each other are some examples of how we've come together to
fight a common enemy. In many ways this crisis has shown us that we had more in common than we do differences.
AIG is not immune to this health threat. We've been fortunate to have a relatively small number of colleagues who tested
positive for COVID-19. Our hearts go out to them and particularly to the families of a few who sadly passed away.
Insurance companies play an important role during times of stress by helping companies and individuals manage risk and
reassess risk appetite. The industry leadership AIG has demonstrated over the last couple of years continues and we will
take a leading role in helping clients and other industry partners manage through this unprecedented time.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 4
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Turning to the topic of this call. I want to thank you for joining us. Our team is working remotely so we are in different
locations this morning. In addition to my remarks you'll hear from Peter Kevin and Mark. And Doug Dachille our Chief
Investment Officer will be available for Q&A. We will lengthen today's call because we want to make sure there is
sufficient time to cover our usual topics in addition to COVID-19 and we want to answer your questions.
I want to be very clear at the outset that AIG was in a strong financial position before this crisis began and remains in a
strong financial position today. We have been and will continue to be laser-focused on actions to further strengthen our
liquidity and capital. Our focus on fundamentals and the foundational work we have done since late 2017 to derisk AIG
and prudently protect our balance sheet has served us well as we navigate this crisis. Because of this ongoing work I
believe AIG will emerge from COVID-19 stronger and more unified with greater perspective wisdom and gratitude.
Crisis reveals character and our leaders across AIG have shown incredible strength of character as they help colleagues
adjust to new working conditions assess what we need to do to keep AIG operating seamlessly and focus on what we
do best which is helping our clients manage their most complex risks especially through difficult times. Our executive
leadership team in particular has navigated through many catastrophes and they're applying their knowledge and
experience as we work hard to protect our colleagues serve our clients keep open lines of communications with our
global regulators and policymakers and generally be a good global citizen.
Our global workforce has shown tremendous resiliency over the last few months. Helping our colleagues has been top
of mind for our executive team. In mid-March we issued a $500 grant to each colleague globally which equates to $30
million in the aggregate to help with unanticipated costs.
We are also focused on helping communities where we live and work. To date we have contributed masks gowns
gloves and other much needed personal protective equipment. As we move to remote working we donated unused
produce perishables and dairy products from our cafeterias and pantries to local shelters and other charitable
organizations. We recently reinstated the AIG Foundation and we'll be making an inaugural $5 million contribution. The
foundation's primary focus for the foreseeable future will be on COVID-19 relief efforts across the globe.
Turning to our first quarter results. We reported net income of $1.98 per common share and adjusted after-tax operating
income of $0.11 per common share. Although our operating results were negatively impacted by COVID-19 our net
income positively benefited from successful hedging strategies in our investment portfolio. It is important to note that our
core business delivered strong results and we are taking decisive actions to ensure that we do not lose the significant
momentum we had as we moved into 2020 which continued through the first quarter of this year.
While not easy we took a very prudent yet robust approach to analyzing COVID-19 impact across AIG. This is a very
unique catastrophe and we will continue to be thoughtful and thorough as we move through each quarter while this
ongoing event evolves. Forecasting the impact of COVID-19 in future quarters is difficult. In light of this we -- and the
continued uncertainty across the global economy we are withdrawing the guidance we provided on our last earnings call
including our adjusted return on common equity outlook.
Having said that in General Insurance we do expect to see continued improvement in the combined ratio ex CATs for
2020. And I believe that our global capabilities and expertise coupled with our strong capital position will be an even
greater demand when COVID-19 begins to stabilize. In Life and Retirement while there will continue to be short-term
effects of volatile markets we do not believe that the impact of COVID-19 will result in a material reduction of our long-
term return profile.
With respect to our investment portfolio it is well matched to our liabilities and is diversified by asset class and industry
sector making it resilient to a credit downturn. Furthermore spreads tightened through the end of April resulting in a 70%
or $6.5 billion recapture of the mark-to-market loss reflected on our March 31 balance sheet for fixed-income available-for-
sale securities.
Looking ahead the ongoing work we are doing particularly as part of AIG 200 will result in AIG not only emerging
from this crisis as a stronger better company but also as a global insurer of choice with significant capital and financial
flexibility. I am very confident AIG will successfully move forward on its journey to become a top-performing company and
a leading insurance franchise.
With that I will turn it over to Peter.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 5
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Thank you Brian. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. Today I plan to review the following topics:
a brief overview of the potential near- and longer-term impact of COVID-19 on the insurance and reinsurance markets
generally; how we analyzed the impact of COVID-19 on GI through March 31; first quarter results for General Insurance
excluding COVID-19 including Validus Re our recently announced launch of Syndicate 2019 and AIG 200; and the
progress that we've made since our last earnings call.
As Brian said the near- and long-term impact of COVID-19 on the global economy in insurance and reinsurance
industries remains unclear. In contrast to other catastrophes like wildfires hurricanes and earthquakes this event is not
confined to any specific geographic region and it had already impacted over 200 countries and territories. In addition this
(sic) [ its ] duration is not limited as is typically the case with traditional CATs.
While the insurance industry manages risk of all kinds it's fair to say that the profound impact and global nature of
COVID-19 is something we have never encountered. There's no playbook and as a result we are called upon to make
thoughtful and prudent decisions in a climate of unprecedented uncertainty.
Before COVID the largest catastrophes on record were Hurricane Katrina with $65 billion losses; then the Tohoku
earthquake with $35 billion in loss; Hurricane Irma with $30 billion losses; and Superstorm Sandy also with approximately
$30 billion in losses.
With respect to COVID-19 we're starting to see early industry estimates but they have significant ranges. While it's
too early to gauge the ultimate size of the loss we believe COVID-19 will result in the largest individual CAT loss the
insurance industry has ever seen. Going forward COVID-related losses will impact all aspects of underwriting insurance
from absolute limits available limits deployed to certain lines of business terms and conditions co-insurance and
structure of coverage just to name a few.
With respect to the reinsurance market unlike traditional main parallel catastrophes COVID was not modeled and
therefore it will be a headwind for future capacity. We believe the retro market will contract. And in the ILS market there
will be trapped capital which will lock up collateral therefore restricting capacity on a go-forward basis. And we're already
seeing this.
At AIG the body of work in General Insurance which started in late 2017 has significantly improved our company's
financial position and has allowed us to take a leadership position in the market. Our strategic decisions and disciplined
focus on areas such as underwriting excellence the rebalancing of our portfolio improved rate adequacy and the
strengthening of our leadership and underwriting capabilities coupled with the addition of Validus in a comprehensive and
revamped reinsurance program has served us very well and enabled us to preserve capital and provide more predictable
outcomes aligned with our risk tolerance. AIG is well positioned to be the insurer that clients turn to for advice on risk and
risk management issues and our partnerships with distribution have continued to strengthen as we problem-solve risk
issues through this challenging time.
Turning to General Insurance. Before reviewing our first quarter results I'd like to address the loss estimate we booked for
COVID-19. As Brian noted we spent a considerable amount of time analyzing our potential exposure across multiple lines
of business and geographies. Given that COVID-19 initially emerged from outside the U.S. we saw claims from Asia the
U.K. and Continental Europe and later in the first quarter from the United States in each case predominantly in travel and
contingency.
As you saw in our earnings release our estimated total COVID-19 net CAT loss in the first quarter was $272 million
which includes significant IBNR. We reached this estimate notwithstanding that there is uncertainty as to how this ongoing
event will evolve and ultimately impact our insurance. It is far from clear at this stage the extent to which those impacts
will even result in covered losses. Having said that we did think it was incumbent upon us to come up with a loss estimate
for the first quarter.
Let me take you through the process we undertook to arrive at this estimate. Over the past several weeks we pulled
together a multidisciplinary team of professionals at AIG with significant industry expertise and experience in underwriting
claims finance actuarial and reinsurance. This team did a top-down and bottom-up policy level review of every account
with activity in the first quarter as well as a review more generally across our portfolio. Due to the significant claim activity
we saw in travel and related accident and health losses I want to provide more detail on this aspect of our estimate. On a
global basis after applying expected reinsurance recoveries our estimate was $86 million.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 6
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
An important point to note is that we have a sliding scale commission structure in travel which will result in acquisition
expenses being reduced by approximately $50 million during 2020 based on our first quarter loss estimates. Therefore
you should think of our $86 million first quarter net loss estimate for travel and related accident health as closer to $36
million. The remaining $186 million of the estimate relates to contingency commercial property trade credit workers'
compensation and Validus Re.
This estimate also encompasses potential losses arising from business interruption coverage in our commercial property
policies. As to those policies I want to emphasize that the overwhelming majority contain exclusions for losses related to
viruses and otherwise require a showing that the virus caused direct physical loss or damage that was the cause of the
business interruption. We are confident these exclusions and related terms and conditions will be upheld should they be
challenged.
In the small fraction of commercial property policies where we have provided affirmative coverage for infectious disease
we've done so under strict underwriting guidelines offering small sub-limits with terms and conditions limiting coverage
in many instances only to certain specified diseases and regardless only where it can be shown that the disease was
physically present and led to a governmental suspension of the business operations.
Additionally our reinsurance program will help protect our portfolio from COVID-19 losses. And depending on the line of
business geography and size of loss our net exposure will be significantly limited.
Lastly I want to note that there's been a fair amount of attention to various U.S. legislative efforts to retroactively impose
coverage for COVID-19-related business interruption losses notwithstanding the clear terms and conditions in commercial
property insurance policies. We are confident that these efforts will not be broadly successful or survive constitutional
scrutiny.
Turning to the rest of the first quarter. As I said earlier we had a very good result in our general -- core General Insurance
business with continuing momentum and profitability improvement. The adjusted accident year combined ratio improved
60 basis points to 95.5% year-over-year primarily due to a 100 basis point improvement in the loss ratio. Our expense
ratio increased marginally as a function of lower net premiums earned although on a year-over-year basis we reduced
general operating expenses by approximately 8% reflecting our continued focus and discipline on expenses.
North America's adjusted accident year combined ratio for the first quarter improved 180 basis points year-over-year
reflecting the improved quality of our North America portfolio. Highlights in the quarter included lower attritional and
severe losses in U.S. retail property and Lexington property and PCG experienced lower attritional losses reflecting
improvements in this portfolio. We had strong new business in the quarter highlighted by admitted and non-admitted
property and lead mid-market casualty. In addition North America leadership team remained focused on expenses and
reduced general operating expenses by 10% year-over-year while continuing to invest in talent.
International's adjusted accident year combined ratio was flat year-over-year. The loss ratio decreased due to improved
rate and portfolio optimization actions. We had strong performance in Japan Asia Pacific commercial and the U.K. The
portfolio actions we took led to reduced net premiums so the expense ratio was higher although in dollar terms general
operating expenses decreased 6%.
Throughout the first quarter we saw a meaningful acceleration in rate year-over-year across the portfolio. These rate
increases are in addition to those we saw beginning with the first quarter of 2019 and continued to strengthen throughout
last year. Overall rate improvement excluding Validus and Glatfelter was low double digits with North America having the
strongest rate strengthening with low double-digit rate increases. In North America areas that we focused on for improved
financial performance included excess casualty which achieved over 30% rate increases; financial lines overall and D&O
specifically which achieved over 20% and 40% respectively; and wholesale Casualty and Property which achieved 30%
rate increases.
Rate increases in international were also strong with high single-digit increases. Europe the U.K. and the Middle East
achieved the strongest rate increases in our international portfolio. In U.K. financial lines we saw rate increases of over
15% D&O was over 20%. Our U.K. and Middle East and Africa Specialty portfolios achieved 20% rate increases and in
Europe overall we were able to achieve high single-digit rate increases led by our Specialty and motor portfolio.
Net written premium was down approximately 1.5% year-over-year after adjusting for foreign exchange impact which
was in line with our expectations. COVID-19 had a limited impact on our net premiums written in the first quarter with
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 7
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
the exception of a falloff in travel and M&A during the month of March which were the first areas to be impacted by the
pandemic.
Net premiums earned were $6.1 billion in the first quarter compared to $6.7 billion in the first quarter of 2019. This decline
was due to the impact of our casualty and energy quota shares earning through and improving the overall mix of business
as well as reflecting the impact of lower gross underwriting and discontinued business.
Turning to Validus Re. Gross premiums written were up 15% as our team continued to execute with disciplined
underwriting and a focus on areas of rate improvement and better terms and conditions. With respect to April 1 renewals
our Japan portfolio achieved strong risk-adjusted rate improvements. Rate increases of 35% to 55% on Japan wind
business occurred for non-loss impacted business and loss impacted layers were up between 75% and 100%.
Validus Re increased premiums written while derisking its portfolio in lower layer business. Specifically Japan premium
increased 13% year-over-year while Japan wind PMLs decreased by approximately 15% at the 1 in 100 year return
period. The risk-adjusted rate increase at April 1 for international property was 15%.
Moving to our PCG business. Yesterday we announced the official launch of our strategic partnership with Lloyd's
called Syndicate 2019 which is now accepting new and renewal business. Syndicate 2019 is managed by Talbot and
is dedicated to supporting our U.S. high and ultrahigh net worth business. This innovative business model is another
example of actions we have been taking to derisk and reposition our portfolio reduce volatility preserve capital and
strategically pursue profitable growth. Syndicate 2019 is an important step forward for PCG and allows us to reposition the
portfolio and reduce peak zone and concentration risks which are inherent challenges with a portfolio of this nature.
We were pleased with the support Syndicate 2019 generated from highly regarded third-party investors and capacity
providers many of whom have partnered with us and supported the broader General Insurance turnaround since late
2017. In addition Syndicate 2019 provides us with an alternative solution to traditional reinsurance thereby reducing
overall reinsurance costs of PCG and for the core program for AIG.
Our PCG business is a recognized market leader and the new management team that we put in place in 2019 is making
significant and excellent progress in improving the financial and operating performance. We continue to execute on a
disciplined underwriting strategy in the first quarter with PCG achieving meaningful rate increases across the portfolio
which we expect to continue through 2020.
Turning to AIG 200. Despite the all-hands-on-deck crisis management work related to our COVID-19 response our
team continued to make significant foundational progress on the operational programs I outlined in our last earnings
call. AIG 200 remains a top priority for us even more so now. As we discussed on our last call after a robust bottom-
up exercise we identified 10 operational programs designed to achieve transformational change by focusing on 4 core
objectives: underwriting excellence modernizing our operating infrastructure enhancing user and customer experience
and becoming a more unified company.
Since that call the world changed dramatically. The AIG 200 leadership team together with other leaders across AIG did
a truly incredible job in the early days of COVID-19. The speed at which we were able to move validated that we have the
right people in the right roles to take our transformational program to the next level. As we reposition our global colleagues
to a work-from-home environment literally within days we learned a tremendous amount about our systems and end-to-
end processes.
While our overall targets of achieving $1 billion in run rate savings by the end of 2022 with a cost to achieve of $1.3 billion
have not changed we are adjusting the timing and sequencing of certain operational programs based on recent learnings.
For example we are accelerating work related to AIG operations which includes our shared services platforms. We now
have significantly more data about our ability to connect our various platforms and confirm that we can operate in a more
virtual and agile model in a post-COVID world. We believe this will allow us to achieve greater efficiencies in the near term
and to more flexibly source requisite skills needed to enable us to operate in a more effective manner.
With respect to IT transformation we completed the design of a simple more efficient IT organization and also finalized
our plans to modernize and simplify our application portfolio. The last few months confirmed that our planned digital
virtual target state is appropriate for our businesses and will give us the opportunity to enhance efficiencies and
effectiveness.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 8
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Turning to our standard commercial underwriting platform. We moved into the testing phase and we'll be launching an
end-to-end model office where we can further test our new digital underwriting technology and prepare to scale IT across
our commercial business. While we're still in the early stages of executing on AIG 200 we're even more committed to this
critical strategic effort that will position AIG for long-term sustainable and profitable growth.
Lastly I want to thank our colleagues. During times of crisis AIG's purpose is clear and our colleagues had gone above
and beyond to help each other and to support our clients and other stakeholders. I'm proud and grateful for all that they're
doing their professionalism and collaboration and for their dedication to our mission.
With that I'll turn the call over to Kevin.
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Thank you Peter and good morning everyone. Today I will discuss overall Life and Retirement results for the first
quarter and our current outlook changes in our operating environment due to COVID-19 and then briefly comment on the
results for each of our businesses.
Life and Retirement recorded adjusted pretax income of $574 million for the quarter and delivered adjusted return on
attributed common equity of 8.4%. Adjusted pretax income decreased by $350 million year-over-year primarily due to
significant market stress in March compared with the strong market recovery we saw in the first quarter of 2019. The main
driver of the decrease was lower equity market returns which primarily resulted in higher variable annuity reserves of
$161 million and higher deferred acquisition cost amortization DAC of $138 million.
Also widening credit spreads generated lower returns from fair value option bonds of $116 million and the low interest
rate environment resulted in continued spread compression across our individual and group retirement product
lines. Lastly I am pleased to report that our hedge program performed as expected in response to the market stress
experienced in March generating gains exceeding the movement in our economic view of the liability and related cash
collateral.
Recognizing the limits of sensitivity especially in the context of first quarter's market volatility our sensitivities provided
on our last earnings call generally held up. Based on the environment we see today we continue to expect base spread
compression across the whole portfolio of approximately 8 to 16 basis points annually. However wider risk-adjusted credit
spreads should generate opportunities to attract new business at profitable margins and the reinvestment of assets rolling
off the portfolio should benefit from higher credit spreads.
We have updated our estimates of market sensitivities to reflect our balance sheet as of the end of the first quarter. We
would expect a plus or minus 1% change in equity market returns to respectively increase or decrease adjusted pretax
income by approximately $25 million to $35 million annually and a plus or minus 10 basis point movement in 10-year
treasury rates to respectively increase or decrease earnings by approximately $5 million to $15 million annually. These
sensitivities assume the immediate impact of market movements on reserves DAC and fair value option securities as well
as investment income and other items.
It is important to note that these market sensitivity ranges are not exact nor linear since our earnings are also impacted
by the timing and degree of movements as well as other factors. Market conditions began to improve in April but one can
expect that should conditions continue to improve there may be immediate benefits in reserves DAC or investments in
the second quarter although these benefits are likely to be offset slightly by lower private equity returns that are reported
on a 1 quarter lag.
Despite the challenging environment COVID-19 created our balance sheet is strong and we currently estimate our fleet
risk-based capital ratio for the first quarter to be between 405% and 415% including both the impacts of variable annuity
reserve and capital reform as well as our hedging program. Our risk-based capital ratio will be sensitive to the impacts
from COVID-19 as they flow through our balance sheet throughout the year. Market stress in the first quarter due to
COVID-19 while severe in nature did not reach our modeled stress testing scenarios although we recognize there is
uncertainty in front of us.
Although we expect lower levels of overall industry sales for the foreseeable future due to impacts from COVID-19
our leadership position continues to provide us with a unique competitive advantage. We have a broad position across
variable indexed and fixed annuities term and permanent life insurance not-for-profit retirement plan markets and
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 9
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
institutional markets. We are not dependent on any one product type or distribution channel which allows us to maintain
our long-standing disciplined approach with respect to product pricing and future development regardless of the economic
environment. Over many years we have proven our ability to redirect our marketing efforts from one product type to
another as market needs and pricing conditions change.
We also have a large and diverse in-force portfolio that does not have the significant risks associated with pre-2010 living
benefits for long-term care. Our very small block of remaining long-term care business has been reinsured to Fortitude.
Our strong capital levels and broad market presence position us well to deploy capital as potential attractive opportunities
arise in this widening spread environment.
Now I'd like to touch on our operations over the last few months. As Peter noted we transitioned quickly to a remote
working model. With the support of our regulators where needed we successfully adapted our e-signature policies
procedures and controls to support the needs of our plan sponsors distribution partner firms and individual customers.
Also investments we have made to enhance our digital capabilities have served us well as many more customers are
taking advantage of our enhanced self-service tools.
We've also been very responsive in adopting changes to address the financial hardship faced by some of our customers
such as extending the grace period for premium payments and meeting the requirements of the CARES Act. Our sales
and relationship management professionals quickly shifted from face-to-face to virtual meetings and have conducted
thousands of such meetings and educational webinars with our producers and customers.
Turning to our first quarter financial results. As mentioned the primary drivers of the decline in Life and Retirement
total adjusted pretax income were short-term impacts to our individual and group retirement businesses from significant
market movements. As to the top line results for individual retirement premiums and deposits decreased primarily due
to significantly lower fixed annuity sales as we maintained our pricing discipline as treasury rates dropped throughout
the quarter with credit spreads only beginning to widen late in the period. Our indexed annuity sales remained strong
but we again grew variable annuity sales. Lower sales of fixed annuities resulted in negative net flows for total individual
annuities.
For group retirement premiums and deposits decreased due to lower new group acquisitions as well as reduced
individual product sales driven by the uncertain environment. Net flows improved year-over-year primarily due to lower
group surrenders. In this period of uncertainty we expect fewer plan sponsors to change providers which may reduce
new group acquisitions but would support plan retention.
For our Life Insurance business total premiums and deposits increased due to higher international premiums. Our
mortality trends continued to be favorable to overall pricing assumptions and the first quarter included a modest IBNR
reserve strengthening to reflect the fluidity of COVID-19. Although we may experience some acceleration we are not
expecting large incremental impacts to mortality rates and expect any incremental impacts to be manageable in the
context of our overall balance sheet.
For Institutional Markets we have continued to grow our asset base and earnings and this business continues to be well
positioned. We remain focused on new opportunities and have the capacity to participate as activity arises in the pension
risk transfer and other institutional businesses.
To close despite these challenging times we remain available to serve our customers plan sponsors and distribution
partners. We are committed to further mobilizing our broad product expertise and distribution footprint to serve our
stakeholders in new ways as their needs evolve. We will continue to deploy capital to the most attractive opportunities and
focus on meeting ever-growing needs for protection retirement savings and lifetime income solutions.
Now I will turn it over to Mark.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Thank you Kevin. Before providing summary comments about the first quarter I'd like to give a COVID-19 perspective
from where I sit. First this health crisis which quickly evolved into an associated financial crisis is unprecedented in scope
uncertainty and length and depth of economic impact.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 10
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Additionally this ongoing event has simultaneously impacted both sides of the balance sheet thereby nullifying most
underlying assumptions that investment assets and insurance liabilities are marginally correlated. As a result it's
extremely difficult to forecast one quarter in advance let alone a full year longer. However as Brian also noted I want to
reiterate that AIG was strongly financially positioned entering the crisis both from a parent and subsidiary liquidity and
capital perspective and is well positioned today including our investment portfolio.
The evolving situation causes us to view liquidity and capital strength as an imperative. When the crisis suddenly took
hold on capital markets in mid-March and not knowing what could come next we thought it was prudent to augment our
already strong current liquidity with a $1.3 billion partial drawdown of our revolving credit facility. We did this solely as
a precautionary measure given the significant uncertainty at the time about the near-term impacts of COVID-19. I will
provide an update on our capital management plans and liquidity position later in these remarks after I review our first
quarter results.
So turning to the first quarter. AIG reported adjusted after-tax operating earnings of $0.11 per diluted share compared
to $1.58 per share in the first quarter of 2019. Contained within this result is the continued improvement of General
Insurance with a 95.5% accident year 2020 ex-CAT combined ratio as Peter noted. First quarter results reflect direct and
indirect impacts related to COVID-19 including the market impact on net investment income and book value with a lesser
impact on core operations APTI.
Peter discussed the General Insurance COVID reserve reflects our best estimate for losses occurring through March 31.
For the first quarter adjusted book value per share increased 2.8% and adjusted tangible book value per share increased
3.2% both since year-end. It's also notable that AIG's adjusted tangible book value per share increased nearly 11% since
March 31 1 year ago (sic) [ 2019 ] which we believe is a better measurement of the improvement in AIG's core operating
performance over the last year. Book value and tangible book value per share both of which include changes in AOCI
and the DTA were virtually flat year-over-year even with the significant AOCI change we saw in the first quarter of this
year.
In the first quarter on an adjusted pretax income basis net investment income or NII was $2.7 billion down approximately
$1 billion from the first quarter of 2019. Recall that the first quarter of 2019 included significant gains following the
downturn that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2018 and this year's first quarter experienced significant losses due to the
COVID-19 volatility in March resulting in a distorted quarter-over-quarter comparison.
I want to spend some time on our global investment portfolio because in the current environment I think it's important
to understand its composition. Several reports have been published that used incorrect assumptions and information
about our portfolio. In many cases our consolidated global portfolio has been compared to U.S. Life or P&C peers or the
industry generally without taking into account our unique position as a global composite or multi-line insurer. In addition
some believe our portfolio has above-average inherent risk which is simply not the case. Instead we believe our portfolio
is below average in terms of risk and we'll get into some of that.
In addition certain accounting elections AIG took in prior years relating to specific securities have created above-the-
line accounting volatility which has led to some confusion but this volatility does not impact AIG on a total return basis.
To address these complexities and the many questions and comments we have received we've provided much more
disclosure regarding our portfolio including the General Insurance Life and Retirement and Legacy portfolio composition
on Pages 46 through 65 in our financial supplement. There you will find a significant expansion of our disclosure beyond
segment and into credit quality distribution and asset or industry characteristic.
As Brian mentioned Doug Dachille our Chief Investment Officer can help address follow-up questions during Q&A but
I'll give some high-level comments now. At March 31 AIG had a $332 billion investable asset portfolio. This portfolio is
about 73% fixed income available-for-sale securities which represents 75% of General Insurance's portfolio and 74% of
Life and Retirement. In addition roughly 14% of the portfolio is invested in mortgage and other loans 6% in short-term
investments 2.5% in real estate investment less than 2% in private equity approximately 1.5% is in the fair value option
fixed income securities or FVO securities and about 0.7% is in hedge funds.
It's important to recognize though that roughly 80% of the FVO fixed income portfolio which historically has had higher
volatility than our available-for-sale fixed maturity securities is held in legacy. Notably the FVO portfolio makes up only
1.4% of General Insurance's portfolio and 0.3% of Life and Retirement.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 11
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Our historical FVO accounting election mostly on Legacy non-agency RMBS that were previously credit impaired cannot
be changed or modified and move mark-to-market volatility above the line into our income statement within net investment
income. For available-for-sale securities such volatility would be below the line in AOCI. As a result this FVO accounting
treatment puts more volatility into our income statement by NII with less relative volatility in AOCI which is where one
would ordinarily expect to see the volatility.
Financial statement geography is important to note when examining AIG's NII but it is irrelevant when you look at total
return which is how our investment function manages our portfolio. Over the last 4-plus years and Doug can address
this in more detail AIG has seen significant derisking of its investment portfolio with material reductions in hedge funds
life settlements CDOs and FVO securities totaling approximately $32 billion which is a 60% drop in these asset classes
since year-end 2015. Additionally AIG's portfolio has only a very small direct equity exposure representing just 0.2% of
the portfolio. The volatility in the equity markets has a minimal impact on our investment income and even that is below
the line.
On Page 63 of the financial supplement you will also see a significant $9 billion-plus credit quality difference in below
investment-grade securities between the rating agency view and the NAIC designation view. Most of this is non-agency
RMBS on an FVO basis which we have had evaluated and rated NAIC-1 by the Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC.
This is the highest rating category which is important because these assets strengthen subsidiary RBC levels and can
sustain RBC levels even if they fall one notch because they still will be investment-grade. However rating agencies have
not re-rated these securities with current information. So from their perspective the securities still retain Legacy below
investment-grade status.
When examining our $144 million of corporate debt which is summarized on Page 56 of the financial supplement and
expanded beginning on Page 59 note that nearly $130 million (sic) [ $130 billion ] is investment-grade. And of this total
15% is rated AA or AAA 34% is A rated and 51% is BBB rated. Compared to the overall investment-grade market we
have a superior distribution of such asset by rating. Similarly when viewing the entire corporate debt portfolio 10% is
below investment-grade which is much lower than the market average of 28%. I wanted to point this out because given
the magnitude of AIG's investment portfolio some may assume that our portfolio mirrors the industry average which is
not the case.
With respect to CECL credit impacts in the first quarter which are included in realized gains and losses and not NII we
recognized approximately $236 million of credit losses. This stems from about $198 million in fixed income securities and
$38 million in loans.
Now turning to the operating segment. As Peter and Kevin discussed their financial results in detail I will just add a few
remarks to augment their comments. General Insurance I'd point out that the $419 million of total CAT reserves for the
quarter represents 6.9 loss ratio points with $272 million or 4.5 loss ratio points being attributed to COVID-19 and $147
million or 2.4 loss ratio points related to other CAT events the largest of which was the tornado storm system that hit
Nashville in early March. Excluding COVID-19 General Insurance generated $185 million of underwriting income which
includes the non-COVID CAT losses.
Prior year development was minimal in the first quarter with $60 million of net favorable development $53 million of
which emanated from the amortization of the ADC deferred gain. On a pre-ADC basis there was a net $1 million of
favorable development representing $30 million of unfavorable in North America mostly from shorter tailed lines largely
offset by favorable $31 million from international across many product lines. Lastly as Peter discussed Syndicate 2019
will favorably alter AIG's risk profile as concentration risk is distributed across an innovative structure and set of capital
providers.
We anticipate that in the second quarter and for the balance of the 2020 year ceded premiums will increase over
original expectations and therefore net premiums will correspondingly reduce. We project that second quarter net
written premium in high net worth will be down approximately $650 million from original expectations and that net earned
premiums for the 2020 year will reduce by approximately $675 million as a result. Beginning in 2021 however the
catastrophe cover costs will decrease for AIG since the high net worth exposure subject to the CAT program will be a
fraction of what it is today. So for 2020 underwriting income for the high net worth unit we anticipate approximately the
same underwriting result pre and post 2019 and then to become accretive thereafter.
Turning to Life and Retirement. I would just add that Institutional Markets benefited from approximately $700 million
pension risk transfer premium in the quarter albeit down a bit from corresponding quarter of last year. In Legacy the $368
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 12
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
million adjusted pretax loss in the first quarter was due to a reduction in NII driven by capital markets volatility we saw in
March which abated as mentioned in April.
As a reminder we signed a definitive agreement to sell Fortitude last year with the economic set as of December 31
2018 which means that all net income subsequent to year-end 2018 up through closing will be included in the gain on
sale -- or loss on sale to be recognized upon the closing of the transaction. We continue on course towards a midyear
closing subject to regulatory approval. And it is noteworthy that Fortitude also has benefited from strategic hedging
transactions that performed as expected and in fact helped capital ratios remain virtually unchanged since early 2019.
Next moving to other operations. And as I discussed on last quarter's earnings call you will see on Pages 37 to 39 of the
financial supplement a revised and simplified presentation that helps identify key drivers of APTI. Our previous disclosures
on this segment could be difficult to understand and volatile in part due to the gross up of income and expense for internal
items mostly investment services which increased other income and GOE. We simplified that and also provided APTI by
activity which should help. As for magnitude this quarter's $280 million of other operations GOE included the COVID-19
employee grants totaling $30 million that Brian referenced and remote access IT costs of $3 million. Excluding that other
operations GOE would have only been $247 million.
Turning to tax. We had a core 23% tax rate on adjusted pretax income for the first quarter higher than recent prior
quarters due to additional items dominated by a $37 million impact reflecting share-based compensation differences
caused by grant date versus delivery date of value resulting from stock price declines during the first quarter.
Turning to liquidity and capital resources. We believe that liquidity and operating subsidiary capital strength are paramount
priorities in this uncertain economic environment. At year-end 2019 AIG had $7.5 billion of liquidity at the parent and the
RBC fleet ratios for General Insurance's U.S. pool finished 2019 at 419% and for Life and Retirement at 402%.
During the first quarter we repurchased $500 million of our stock and called $350 million of Formosa bonds. Share
repurchases helped to offset share count dilution stemming from equity compensation and the Formosa bond calls aided
our debt leverage ratio. As of March 31 AIG had a similar $7.5 billion of current liquidity including the $1 billion -- $1.3
billion draw from our revolver that I referenced earlier in my remarks as well as strong liquidity in both General Insurance
and Life and Retirement.
Before turning to AIG 200 there were 2 below-the-line items in the first quarter that I would like to highlight. First the
success of our hedging program and the second would be Blackboard. Turning first to our hedging program. Roughly
$3.6 billion of variable annuity fair value benefits were reflected during the first quarter within the realized gains line as
a direct result of successful interest rate and equity risk hedging within the Life and Retirement and Legacy segments
that clearly preserved book value. It should be noted though that on a GAAP basis this gain was aided by the NPA or
nonperformance adjustment impact which is highly volatile and reversible depending upon rate spreads in equity markets.
Secondly at the end of March AIG made a strategic decision to discontinue Blackboard our internal insurance tech start-
up in light of current market condition. Blackboard's GOE which was $16 million in the quarter has been historically
recorded in other operations but that will cease starting with the second quarter of this year. Associated with this business
decision we recorded an approximate $165 million after-tax charge not included in APTI.
Pivoting to AIG 200. As Peter noted we continue to refine our operational plans in response to COVID-19. We still expect
that this strategic 3-year transformation will result in $1.3 billion in costs to achieve an annualized $1 billion of run rate
GOE savings by year-end 2022.
Let me first just provide a quick review and then I'll give you the AIG 200 3-year walk as well as its impact on the first
quarter of 2020. From a reporting perspective all costs to achieve aside from $400 million of pretax spending that will be
capitalized will be recorded below the line not in APTI as restructuring and other costs which will make it straightforward
to track. These below-the-line charges mostly involve employee-related costs dedicated internal resources and
associated professional services (sic) [ fees ].
Capitalized costs of $400 million before tax represent mostly investments in systems development interfaces data
conversions and associated integrated workflow processes which have an impact on cash but are not expensed
immediately in the income statement. Instead each investment will be capitalized and then amortized through GOE based
on its useful life according to accounting principles. Hence by year-end 2022 we would expect that the amortization
portion of the $400 million will be included in our annual expense run rate where our goal is a total annual run rate
savings of $1 billion including the amortization of these capitalized investments.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 13
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
So let's turn towards what this means for the next 3 years acknowledging that in this uncertain world timing of plans can
somewhat change. Under Peter's leadership we are governing AIG 200 via structured checkpoints and tollgate to control
costs confirm scope -- and reconfirm scope and drive key milestone achievements. Overall we expect a total "cash cost"
at the holding company of $1.3 billion.
As shown on Page 8 of the financial results slide $350 million of this is expected in 2020 although still being reviewed
due to COVID-19 impact $500 million in 2021 and $450 million in 2022. Of these amounts approximately $100 million in
2020 will be capitalized with later amortization into GOE. The combination of these 2 results in a below-the-line projected
charge of $250 million before tax. Then in 2021 about $200 million will be capitalized with a below-the-line charge of
roughly $300 million. And finally about $100 million will be capitalized in 2022 with a below-the-line charge of $350
million.
Based on our current useful life schedule for depreciation and assumptions about when we expect the $400 million in
capitalized assets to be placed into service calendar year depreciation included in GOE should be 0 in 2020 as the
project will still be in development rising in 2021 to be between $10 million to $15 million before tax and $25 million to
$30 million in 2022. Based on projected completion by year-end 2022 the unamortized balance of about $350 million will
be amortized at about a 7-year average life with $50 million per year in 2023 through 2027 and then trailing off a bit from
there.
Finally in the first quarter of 2020 we had a $90 million restructuring charge below the line of which about $23 million
related to AIG 200 and the balance from other actions. Going forward restructuring charges will primarily reflect AIG 200
costs. Relative to expense savings this quarter had $10 million of GOE savings which will translate to $60 million on an
annualized run rate basis which is part of the $300 million planned run rate benefit by year-end 2020.
Now shifting to capital management and looking ahead. In light of the significant uncertainty on many fronts due to
COVID-19 we do not plan to do additional share repurchases or debt reduction actions for the foreseeable future but we
will reassess this as COVID-19 impact stabilizes. However given improved stability in and access to the capital markets
since March we are reevaluating our debt and capital plan. While reducing debt leverage to 25% or below is a minimum
term goal in the near term our priority is maintaining strong operating capitalization financial flexibility and liquidity. As a
result we are considering options to generate additional near-term liquidity in light of ongoing economic volatility as well
as upcoming debt maturities in 2020 and in the medium term.
Although spreads have widened since year-end all-in coupons are attractive. And given the significant uncertainty around
the duration and depth of global recession created by COVID-19 as well as taking into account our global operating
footprint and different regulatory capital regimes we think it is prudent to evaluate debt capital market opportunities in the
near term rather than waiting until later in the year which was our original plan prior to COVID-19.
Lastly and reflecting back the first quarter benefited in the first 2 months from strong momentum in GI pricing investment
return and operating initiatives. In March COVID-19 spread incredibly fast and dramatically changed everyone's everyday
world. AIG entered this crisis from a position of strength. While it has certainly impacted us and caused us to recalibrate
some of our plans AIG is more resilient than it has ever been with strong leadership and greater portfolio and risk
management across the organization. We are confident in our ability to weather this storm and look forward to being able
to engage with you again in person hopefully in the near term.
With that I will turn it back to Brian.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Thanks Mark. Abby I think we're ready for the Q&A portion. So please get us started and let us know who’s first.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 14
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Question and Answer
Operator
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Elyse Greenspan with Wells Fargo.
Elyse Beth Greenspan
Wells Fargo Securities LLC Research Division
My first question -- in your prepared remarks you guys mentioned that a small fraction of your commercial property
policies contain coverage for infectious diseases and that those policies do have small sublimits. I'm just trying to get a
sense for those policies where you think you could see losses have you set up reserves within your COVID losses in the
first quarter?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Elyse I think that's a question for Peter. Peter would you take that please?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes. Sure Brian. Elyse let me just give you a little bit more detail. Yes we did go through it very thoroughly in the first
quarter as I outlined our process that we did bottom-up and top-down. But when you look at the size and scope of our
global portfolio the nature of our clients in terms of the segmentation we do have commercial property policy that have
some manuscript wordings. As I said in my opening remarks the overwhelming majority of the standard commercial
property policies do contain clear exclusions for viruses and it's fairly standard in the industry. These policies also require
that there's direct physical loss or damage that impact the insured business operations. As to these policies COVID is not
covered. So that's point one.
There are limited instances where we do write affirmative coverage for communicable diseases. But even in those cases
it's only on a supplemented basis and it's pursuant -- we have very strict underwriting guidelines that often result in
coverage for only specified diseases and in an event that there's a requirement that there would also be a government
closure caused by physical presence of the disease itself. So again it's fairly clear.
And just to give you some context in terms of what I'm talking about is that 100% of our sublimits aggregate to well less
than 1% of our total limits in our commercial property policy. So it's a very small portion of the overall property exposure.
And I would just note that I mentioned in my prepared remarks we have really comprehensive reinsurance whether it's
on a property per risk basis. We have low attachment points on a per occurrence basis that's regional and we also have
global aggregates that attach to reduced volatility on a frequency and severity basis. So sorry for the long answer but I
think it's important to get into the detail.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Thank you Peter.
Operator
We will take our next question from Tom Gallagher with Evercore.
Thomas George Gallagher
Evercore ISI Institutional Equities Research Division
Mark you mentioned your plan on running with higher debt for the time being which I think that makes sense given the
current environment. Have you gotten any sense from the rating agencies on their reaction to the higher leverage for
now?
And then just a follow-up question on the investment portfolio. Appreciate all the disclosure there. The $18 billion of
other invested assets it looks like $6.7 billion of that is in legacy. Would you expect most of that to be transferred with
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 15
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
the Fortitude resale? And then sorry for the string here but then just one related question. The $8.5 billion of real estate
alternative investments should we expect there to be any kind of impairment on that in 2Q? Or is there some buffer with
historical cost accounting there?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay Tom. Listen why don't we have Mark you want to talk about the debt. And then I'm going to ask Doug to take over
on the investment portfolio question. So Mark why don't you go first.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
Sure. Thank you Brian and I will do that as well. With regards to debt yes we've spoken to the rating agencies. In
fact we were in conversation with them on the revolver drawdown as a matter of fact and had very good strong and
supportive conversations with them. And anything in the future we may contemplate of course we'll be in discussions
with them as well.
With that I will turn it over to Doug to ask -- to talk about those 2 investment questions.
Douglas Adam Dachille
Executive VP & Chief Investment Officer
Thank you Mark. Well I would refer you to Page 49 of the financial supplement which basically goes through the Legacy
segment and the assets that are kind of held in that segment in pretty robust detail.
As you know in addition there's approximately $40 billion of assets which we also disclosed in our financials which
are going to be part of the sale related to Fortitude. The portions that we'll be retaining -- there will be some real estate
investments that we'll be retaining that are part of Legacy. There will also be some fair value option bonds that will be
retained in Legacy that were part of the old financial products direct investment book. So those will not be part of the sale
transaction. But the material amount of the assets will be -- as you know over $40 billion will be separating as part of the
sale of Fortitude.
With respect to the real estate as you know we only experienced a rapid acceleration in the month of March with respect
to the development and emergence of the COVID situation. So we're still in the midst of analyzing the impact and I think
it's very early to determine what the impact will be on our real estate portfolio. But it should be noted that our real estate
portfolio is diverse. It includes both domestic and international exposures. So the impact we'll learn more as things go on.
I think where we're learning the most about our real estate is obviously on the commercial mortgage loan side. So that's
where we're getting some real insight into what's going on in the real estate market. And those teams the commercial
mortgage loan team work very very closely with the real estate equity team at AIG. And all of those investments are
managed directly so we have great level of sight -- of line of sight to what's going on in that market. But it's still really early
to determine what's going to happen.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Thanks Doug.
Operator
We will take our next question from Yaron Kinar with Goldman Sachs.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
I want to start with one question on the removal of the 2021 in terms of return guidance. Just want to make sure I
understand what it does and what it does not mean. Does it mean from your perspective that you could see the COVID
impact linger or continue well into 2021?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 16
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Well let me take that. Who knows? I mean you don't know whether COVID will reemerge if it does go down and impact in
2020. It's really a question of how much predictability is there to quarterly earnings. And it's difficult to predict quarters. So
if you can't predict a quarter I don't want to try to predict a year or several years. I think it's important to note though that
the underlying power of the company remains. We're very very strong in the GI. GI has continued to show improvement
the good work that has been done over the last 3 years what Peter and his team have continued on. So the returns
that we were talking about I believe if you -- certainly if you take the COVID out for a second are going to continue
to improve. And so the trajectory we're on is we're still on. Now you have a COVID event and I think the COVID event
certainly would impact L&R on a short-term basis. But again we think the long-term power of the company is there.
So COVID itself it'll be large. I told you that I believe it will be the largest event in the insurance industry. But it is a -- it's
an inflection point and that effect that we'll see -- we've already been in a market on the GI side General Insurance P&C
side. That was turning. It was improving. And the rates and terms and conditions were improving for the risk taker. This
COVID is going to prove to be an inflection point. So companies with strong balance sheet we have one. Companies with
strong management we have one. Companies that have been well risk managed and we've done that now they're going
to be on the right side of that. And so we believe we can handle anything that comes with COVID and we feel very strong
but predicting quarter-to-quarter is just impossible. So I hope that helps.
Yaron Joseph Kinar
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Research Division
Yes it does. So my follow-up question on that is when you talk about COVID being the largest catastrophe event in the
industry's history can you maybe talk about what P&C lines in particular you would foresee having very large losses here
and maybe also the proportion of losses that you'd expect coming from L&R maybe not directly COVID related but from
capital markets activity?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Well I'm going to have Peter talk about what we see in the P&C side and then I'll let Kevin talk about L&R. So Peter do
you want to talk about that first?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Sure. Thank you Brian. We mentioned quite a few lines when we were referring to the first quarter whether it's travel
M&A A&H. Some other lines to think about that could have activity is workers' compensation. We don't know about D&O
liability. We have been watching it very carefully and making certain that we're looking at any line that we think could have
an impact. But I mean what I can tell you to add to Brian's comments before is that we have a very thorough process and
we'll be consistent all the way through.
We know the CAT is still ongoing which is a very rare. So as things emerge and develop we will adapt to that. And we're
looking at this across every global geography where we think there's impact and multiple lines of business. But because
the CAT is still going we even have 2 months left in the quarter it's hard to see what may transpire in the future. But as I
said we have a great process and we'll keep everybody updated on lines of business as they emerge.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Kevin the L&R?
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Yes. Thanks. So I'll address it really in 3 pieces mortality in the markets and then maybe just a reminder around pricing.
So our reported mortality in the first quarter was below pricing which continues the trend that we've had for the last 2-
plus years. But later in the period what we did notice is that there were some delays in reporting generally related to
the issuance of certain documentations. So we put up a modest IBNR really to just add late-running reporting. As we
look ahead we do expect that there will be additional mortality in the second and the third quarter depending upon how
circumstances and behaviors evolve. So where does that leave us? We expect some adverse mortality overall for 2020
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 17
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
but we don't expect to see significant impacts to the balance sheet just based on what we know and there could be some
offsetting factors.
In terms of the market effects look there's 2 things. I mean when equity markets move particularly when they go down
that ultimately reduces our future expected fee income particularly in the annuities portfolio which we have to reflect
immediately and back. And the reality is that the reduced reserve overall actually emerges as additional profits in the
future and also serves to increase our SOP 03-1 reserves. And when changes in credit spreads we see the immediate
impact on fair value options.
So those 2 short-term market effects are reversible and that leads to the third thing which is pricing and how do we
feel about current pricing. And certainly treasury rates are at all-time lows but our ability to price product is to pace -- is
based not only on where base rates are but also where credit spreads what is the shape of the yield curve and where
investor expectations and appetites are. And so based on the current environment we're still able to price to long-term
expectations that we have. Certainly there's disruptions in the sales environment but it's difficult to anticipate what the
future on that is going to be and how it evolves.
So those are the 3 perspectives I have on the long-term earnings potential of the Life and Retirement.
Mark Donald Lyons
Executive VP & CFO
And one thing I'd just like to add there Yaron to Peter's comments about certain lines of business he mentioned workers'
comp. I think it's important to remember that AIG has de-risked that workers' compensation business significantly probably
over the last 7 8 years. And where AIG finds itself now is mostly in loss sensitive-related programs which have average
deductibles north of $1 million. So when you think about deaths in the work comp area that's statutorily determined by
state. That's going to be underneath a deductible. Standard medical and temporary all that falls away. It has to be a major
permanent partial to really penetrate it. So I think the book is well positioned given what we're talking about here.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Yes. And just one other piece on the comp. And Peter mentioned this earlier but we -- yes there are COVID claims
coming in but I think you have to recognize that there's been a decline in a number of claims coming in otherwise. And so
it remains to be seen what the net effect of COVID has on the workers' comp. So that's something to keep an eye on.
Operator
We will take our next question from Michael Phillips with Morgan Stanley.
Michael Wayne Phillips
Morgan Stanley Research Division
I want to touch on comments on expected continued underwriting core profitability in General Insurance and maybe how
you think about the near-term impact of exposure drops given the economy and how that might affect the profitability
improvement plan for the remainder of this year.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Michael well that's Peter. So Peter why don't you do that?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Okay. Thank you for the question. We certainly are paying very close attention to lines of business that would be affected
by the economic headwinds that are generated from COVID-19. I mentioned some of them in the prior question in areas
where we're watching for loss but I would think that there's going to be a meaningful falloff of travel in the second quarter
M&A could be some falloff in aerospace marine and energy and we mentioned workers' compensation.
Having said all that is that you got to remember the segmentation and demographic of our portfolio. I mean over 75%
of our business is on some form of either deductible SIR or funded captive. And so we don't have a direct correlation.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 18
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Even though it is rated off of a payroll sales auto is done on an excess basis. And therefore we do not think we will have
as much headwind in terms of premium reduction. There will be some but it'll be more modest because it's not a direct
ratable exposure that generates a premium. We have different factors in terms of how we adjust excess premium. So we
just don't think it's going to be as pronounced.
Brian mentioned on workers' compensation the decrease in frequency. It's not a trend yet but it's an observation that
while COVID losses are increasing we're seeing a commensurate drop in where our clients are retaining losses that
those are dropping. So as we look at repositioning our portfolio where we attach on an excess basis and a commensurate
premium as I said there's going to be some lines of business that will affect but we think there's opportunities for other
areas of growth. As we have repositioned the portfolio we like where we are and think that the leadership position that
AIG can demonstrate in the marketplace will give us also some select opportunities for growth.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Thanks Peter. Michael anything else?
Michael Wayne Phillips
Morgan Stanley Research Division
No. That's it. Appreciate it.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Thanks Michael.
Operator
We will take our next question from Paul Newsome with Piper Sandler.
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
I'm a little concerned that the loss with the -- the big CAT loss that you have from COVID-19 is more of a liability loss than
a property loss. Can you talk about how the reinsurance would protect you in a liability-type catastrophe event versus a
property-type loss? I’m familiar with the [ loss type to property ] but I can't recall a liability to cash being done with this in
terms of size. So I don't know what you guys mean in terms of coverage protection from that loss.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. So Paul you want us to talk about COVID versus our reinsurance program?
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
Yes. If COVID was a liability loss instead of a property loss.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Yes. Okay. Well Peter I guess that's you again.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes. Thanks Brian and Paul. So I outlined our property program and said that we had reduced volatility significantly. On
the liability side I think we've done actually even more. We used to retain significant limits within AIG and so we've been
building a program over time that significantly reduce the net limits that we put out as well as the gross limits. And also we
did it on an excess of loss basis and also on a quota share.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 19
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
So on a general liability policy as an example we would have less than probably -- depending on the limit we have a
50%-plus quota share on our first limit retention and we have 100% reinsurance above $25 million. So we have -- if you
issue a policy a significant-sized policy the most you'll have in that is between $10 million and $12 million. So we actually
have significant protection on the quota share as well as the excess of loss.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
So Paul let me just jump in. Look again our reinsurance is good and solid and Peter has done a tremendous job along
with his team to put that together. Our first line of defense is the way we manage our portfolio to start with. And so you
can't rely on reinsurance to make a portfolio better than it is. So we've done a tremendous amount of work risk selection
limits management attachment points and pricing along all the lines of business property and casualty. And that's where
we feel very confident about our situation vis-à-vis the impact that COVID will -- as those impacts unfold. So I just want to
add that.
So Paul did you have another -- anything else?
Jon Paul Newsome
Piper Sandler & Co. Research Division
No. That's it for me the reinsurance.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from Ryan Tunis with Autonomous Research.
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
I just wanted to confirm something that I guess Peter said earlier in the Q&A that there's affirmative BI coverage for 1%
of total property limit. That sounds like that could be somewhat of a big notional number. Did I hear it correctly?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Well what I said was…
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Peter you go ahead. Peter go ahead.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
All right Brian. Ryan what I said was not that that was a permanent coverage and those sublimits would trigger
coverage. What I said is that the limits that we provided on the affirmative which have again a bunch of triggers that I
outlined in my previous answer that we have well less than 1% of our total limits when you compare that to our property
gross limits. So again it's well less than 1%. And I'm not suggesting that we confirm that there is coverage or that we are
adjudicating claims on that amount. It's just that that's what we have for limits and then it goes case-by-case insured-by-
insured in terms of what the loss is.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Yes. Ryan let me just add something here. And that is Peter talked about that process of evaluating the losses occurring
in the first quarter. I've been in this business a long time 40-plus years and I've seen a lot of things come and go. I've
seen difficulties in trying to assess loss. I have to tell you the process that we went through that they went through and
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 20
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
we went through it's as good as anything I've ever seen. They have gone through every bit of the portfolio. They looked at
everything where there was a potential and evaluated whether there would be a reason to put up a reserve. If there was it
was done. So we have posted the reserves that we believe are appropriate albeit conservative for that -- everything that
happened in the first quarter. I just want to make sure that everybody understands that. Let me…
Ryan James Tunis
Autonomous Research LLP
Yes. Yes. So can you just talk a little bit about how you're seeing business interruption losses might respond within the
Validus book? And also just the $272 million net loss number what does that look like on a gross basis in reinsurance?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Well Peter that's you again. Okay.
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Okay. With Validus Re we've gone cedent by cedent have taken a look at our gross net exposures and put up what we
thought was the best estimate based on again the same process that we outlined for the core of AIG in the first quarter.
In terms of the net and gross I mean look there's some reinsurance. I'm not going to go into great detail in terms of what
the net is versus the gross. It's still an evolving loss as we outlined with meaningful IBNR. But again I've outlined what I
thought were the reinsurance structures that could apply in the event that the loss were to grow over time.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Thanks Ryan.
Operator
We will take our next question from Meyer Shields with KBW
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Research Division
This is sort of a related question but it seems to be top of mind for a lot of investors. How should we think about
commercial property where there is no affirmative coverage but not virus exclusion given some apparent court decision
saying that non-personal damage would qualify?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Well it's a technical question Meyer. But Peter can you do it?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
It's a really hard question to answer because it's hypothetical. The only thing I can really do is comment on the policies
that we have and where we think -- again I outlined the demographics of it and think that the exclusions that we have and
where we've granted affirmative coverage it's very specific. And so it's hard to answer that because I don't think it really
applies to our portfolio.
Meyer Shields
Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Research Division
Okay. That's fair. Unrelated question. I guess I would have expected maybe better results in international personal lines
assuming an international shelter-in-place order. Am I missing something there?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 21
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
International personal lines Peter?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes. What happened in international personal lines it's not an anomaly but we basically had a runoff program that
impacted -- and we still had earned premiums. So it was put into runoff in 2018 unearned premium in '19. And as
we've been doing the re-underwriting of the portfolio again not as much as we did on the commercial we've just lost a
little bit of premium. And so the ratios look like they -- perhaps they're not going in the right direction. But the absolute
performance is very strong. We like the personal book very much and think that there are some real discrete opportunities
for growth particularly in A&H and an area across all of international and actually have a new digital platform we're putting
in. So I wouldn't read into that in terms of a trend. It's just the impact of a runoff business Meyer.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Thanks Peter. Thanks Meyer.
Operator
Our next question is from Brian Meredith with UBS.
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Yes. So Brian I'll have this one for you instead of going to [ others ]. Given the impact we've seen of COVID-19 on the
General Insurance business as well as the Life Insurance businesses I'm wondering if you're at all rethinking the strategic
rationale of actually having both the Life and the P&C operation in the same company.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Well Brian I guess my job is to continually always think about the structure that we have. Does it make sense? Would
we be better in a different structure? And so that thinking continues. I think at this point we're comfortable with where we
are but that's my job as we continue to do that. So we'll continue to keep looking at that. There were reasons why these 2
belong together and those are still there. But I'll always think about that. But there is nothing that I would talk about. Right
now I think we're comfortable with it.
Any other question Brian?
Brian Robert Meredith
UBS Investment Bank Research Division
Yes. Just one other quick one here. I'm just thinking about it. So given this is as you were saying the largest catastrophe
loss for the insurance industry probably ever if I kind of think back AIG with KRW had well over $2 billion of losses. Are
we talking about a potential loss here that's going to be well north of $1 billion for you guys? Ultimately at the end of the
day is it truly the largest capacity loss ever?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Well if you look at it we're not the company we were huh Brian. We're not the company then. There's been a complete
change in how we look at the risk. The derisking that we've done the limits management the improved reinsurance
profiles all lead us -- put us in a position where we are much stronger and able to withstand an event. And so I point out
that this is the largest event because I want people to understand that it's creating an inflection point in the industry. But
there are going to be some who do well in this process and some that won't. We're in -- we believe we will do well through
this event and that we will -- we're going to emerge stronger and more in demand than we were before.
Operator
We will take our next question from Andrew Kligerman with Crédit Suisse.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 22
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Andrew Scott Kligerman
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
On the Life Insurance side I'm wondering if you could give a bit more of a sensitivity in terms of the COVID-19 exposure
what you might expect during the course of the year. And then with regard to your variable annuity hedging that was very
strong what was your hedging effective numbers with variable annuity?
And lastly just in terms of the press release and what you said on the call you talked about maintaining the return on
equity profile for the Life business. What might that profile be? I mean could you [ run through ] where you think a good
range [ could be ] and where the Life and Retirement business could be?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Andrew thanks. So I'm going to have Kevin and obviously talk about the sensitivity around COVID-19 and the
hedging program. On the hedging program I think Kevin why don't you do the piece about the variable annuity? But I
would like Doug to jump in on the -- what happened with Fortitude as well. So Kevin why don't you start?
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Yes. Thanks Brian. Thanks Andrew. So look I guess I'll address that from a couple of perspectives. I covered the market
impacts the short-term market impacts so I'm not sure -- I need to go back to that. But I mean clearly when equity
markets move it impacts the SOP in the DAC. And when the fair values move that impacts the fair value options. Those
will unwind.
Andrew Scott Kligerman
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
On [ Life ] I meant simply the mortality…
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
I'm sorry Andrew?
Andrew Scott Kligerman
Crédit Suisse AG Research Division
Yes. I apologize. I needed to be clearer. I meant simply the mortality what is your sense just given the mortality…
Kevin Timothy Hogan
Executive VP and CEO of Life & Retirement
Oh mortality. Fine yes. So it's very straightforward that in the first quarter we saw mortality better than pricing. We
believe there are delays in the reporting of those claims. As we look at second quarter and third quarter based on where
the current estimates are this is well within our first level modeled stress scenario. We don't expect any significant
impact on the balance sheet. And there's also -- it's difficult to project how people are going to behave how people are
going to respond. So that's about the best that we can do. It's just based on where we believe our market presence and
geographical presence are versus the current expected losses.
In terms of hedging what I would say is first of all you can only hedge what you have. And so the liability profile that we
have is a big part of the success of our hedging program because we have primarily derisked benefits sold well after the
VA arms race of the mid-2000s. And so that includes our feature of requiring fixed-income allocation volatility control
funds et cetera. We've hedged all hedgeable market risks. We've left an open position relative to credit spread because
we believe that that is a natural hedge against our general account portfolio. Over time our hedge effectiveness is around
90% and it's continued to perform almost exactly as we expected in the various market dynamics resulting in I think the
results -- the good results we reported for the quarter.
But I'm going to pass on to Doug because another feature of our hedging success in the first quarter was also in the
Fortitude portfolio.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 23
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Douglas Adam Dachille
Executive VP & Chief Investment Officer
All right. Thank you Kevin. So I just wanted to comment on the fact that what you don't really see in the financials is with
respect to the Legacy segment you're seeing all the mark-to-market impact particularly of the fair value option securities
that are in Legacy and to some extent in Fortitude. What you don't see is the fact that we had established interest rate
and credit hedges which all that P&L and effect goes through realized capital gains and losses. So you don't really see the
net effect.
But the best way to look at how that -- how the entity performed and how those hedges are formed and how effective they
were is as Mark made in his prepared remarks he said that the regulatory capital ratios for the entity were preserved from
over a year ago. So that gives you a sense of how effective our hedging strategy was for things that you're not necessarily
seeing when you look at the mark-to-market volatility that is reported in our financial statements in the APTI. So thank you.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Thanks Doug.
Operator
Our next question will be from Scott Frost with State Street Global Advisors.
Scott Frost
State Street Global Advisors Inc.
You said you expect COVID be the largest single P&C event the industry has ever seen. Could you give us some
background on what the basis is for this assessment specifically the length of shutdown you're assuming here? And what
are your thoughts on the Willis piece released Friday? And over how many years do you expect claims to develop and be
paid? I'm assuming multiyear payment profile. But if I'm wrong please correct me.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Okay. Well let me start with that and then Peter can add from it. But in terms -- just in terms of the payments these
particularly business interruption claims are very long in process and payments. So I think we're just -- I think we just
cleaned up the last business interruption from Superstorm [ Irma ] to give you some idea. So anyway. But in terms of
the estimate I mean we've seen a lot of different estimates and I think they run the range. But the first thing you have to
understand is this is global in nature. This pandemic has affected every corner of the world. It isn't that hard to come up
with a reasonable assumption around the effects because we're seeing effects in Europe we're seeing effects in Japan
we're seeing effects in Latin America and of course here in North America. So whether it's the effects of comp that we
talked about or it's the business interruption with travel and event cancellations and on and on and on it doesn't take
much to figure out how this has spread across the globe. The question for us is what's our position on all those things?
And we feel very very comfortable with how we've managed this risk in general and how we're well positioned for COVID.
Peter do you want to add anything to that where does the...
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Brian not much. The only thing I would just add is what you said. We've seen a lot of very good written documents that
have come out. But just because of the ongoing nature of the event and the complexity of the different lines of business
it's the wide range of scale in terms of the low end to the high end is about as wide as you'll see in terms of predicting
cash. So it's very hard to pinpoint anything or the level of accuracy until this evolves over time.
Scott Frost
State Street Global Advisors Inc.
Well then how can we say that it's going to be the largest event we've ever seen when there's a wide range? I mean
again you're saying it's going to exceed Katrina. So on the basis of that what -- I mean again what are we saying? I
mean the Willis report says length of shutdown is really the determining factor. They're saying a year at $80 billion. When
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 24
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
you say it's greater than Katrina is that the basis of your statement? Or can it be less than that? I mean what I'm trying to
get at is how are you getting to that statement? Do you see what I mean?
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Peter?
Peter Salvatore Zaffino
President Global COO & CEO of General Insurance
Yes. I mean so looking at -- I mean let's get off the Willis is that we've done a ground-up analysis based on what we think
can be an industry loss with a lot of assumptions again length of time severity geographic spread and have done it
across multiple lines of business. And again we're not in the business of putting out ranges as to what is going to happen
to the industry because we look at our own portfolio. But when we look at market share of different lines of business we
came up with an estimate that exceeded Katrina. And I think that was the basis of Brian's statement.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Yes. Okay.
Scott Frost
State Street Global Advisors Inc.
But it would be helpful if you could -- if you told us some of the assumptions behind that is what I’m driving that. I
appreciate the comments.
Brian Charles Duperreault
CEO & Director
Well thank you very much. Like I said we've gone past our time so I want to wrap this up.
And so first of all I want to thank everyone again for joining us today. And I also want to thank our clients and distribution
partners our shareholders other stakeholders. We're all in this together and we will get through this challenging
time together. Most importantly finally I want to thank our colleagues around the world. Guys you've exceeded my
expectations and I could not be prouder of what we've accomplished together over the last few months.
So everyone please be safe and be healthy. And thank you again. Goodbye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call and we thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 25
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. FQ1 2020 EARNINGS CALL  MAY 05 2020
Copyright © 2020 by S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
These materials have been prepared solely for information purposes based upon information generally available to the public and from sources believed
to be reliable. No content (including index data ratings credit-related analyses and data research model software or other application or output
therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified reverse engineered reproduced or distributed in any form by any means or stored in a
database or retrieval system without the prior written permission of S&P Global Market Intelligence or its affiliates (collectively S&P Global). The
Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. S&P Global and any third-party providers (collectively S&P Global Parties)
do not guarantee the accuracy completeness timeliness or availability of the Content. S&P Global Parties are not responsible for any errors or
omissions regardless of the cause for the results obtained from the use of the Content. THE CONTENT IS PROVIDED ON "AS IS" BASIS. S&P
GLOBAL PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE FREEDOM FROM BUGS SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS THAT
THE CONTENT'S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE
CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S&P Global Parties be liable to any party for any direct indirect incidental exemplary compensatory punitive
special or consequential damages costs expenses legal fees or losses (including without limitation lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs
or losses caused by negligence) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages. S&P Global Market
Intelligence's opinions quotes and credit-related and other analyses are statements of opinion as of the date they are expressed and not statements of
fact or recommendations to purchase hold or sell any securities or to make any investment decisions and do not address the suitability of any security.
S&P Global Market Intelligence may provide index data. Direct investment in an index is not possible. Exposure to an asset class represented by an
index is available through investable instruments based on that index. S&P Global Market Intelligence assumes no obligation to update the Content
following publication in any form or format. The Content should not be relied on and is not a substitute for the skill judgment and experience of the user
its management employees advisors and/or clients when making investment and other business decisions. S&P Global Market Intelligence does not
act as a fiduciary or an investment advisor except where registered as such. S&P Global keeps certain activities of its divisions separate from each other
in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result certain divisions of S&P Global may have information that
is not available to other S&P Global divisions. S&P Global has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain nonpublic
information received in connection with each analytical process.
S&P Global may receive compensation for its ratings and certain analyses normally from issuers or underwriters of securities or from obligors. S&P
Global reserves the right to disseminate its opinions and analyses. S&P Global's public ratings and analyses are made available on its Web sites
www.standardandpoors.com (free of charge) and www.ratingsdirect.com and www.globalcreditportal.com (subscription) and may be distributed
through other means including via S&P Global publications and third-party redistributors. Additional information about our ratings fees is available at
www.standardandpoors.com/usratingsfees.
© 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Copyright © 2020 S&P Global Market Intelligence a division of S&P Global Inc. All Rights reserved.
spglobal.com/marketintelligence 26